The Project Gutenberg EBook of Proceedings of the New York Historical
Association [1906], by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Proceedings of the New York Historical Association [1906]

Author: Various

Release Date: February 14, 2016 [EBook #51218]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PROCEEDINGS--NEW YORK HIST. ASSOC. 1906 ***




Produced by Roger Burch with scans provided by the Internet Archive.







[Illustration: Cover]



                       PROCEEDINGS OF THE

                          * * * * *

                     NEW YORK STATE HISTORICAL
                          ASSOCIATION

                          * * * * *

                   THE SEVENTH ANNUAL MEETING,
                    WITH CONSTITUTION, BY-LAWS
                       AND LIST OF MEMBERS.

                          * * * * *

[Illustration: Seal of the Association]

                          * * * * *

                      PUBLISHED BY THE
            NEW YORK STATE HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION
                           1906




                   NEWBURGH JOURNAL PRINT.




                 NEW YORK STATE HISTORICAL
                        ASSOCIATION.

                          * * * * *

                          President,
              Hon. JAMES A. ROBERTS, New York.

                     First Vice-President,
             Hon. GRENVILLE M. INGALSBE, Sandy Hill.

                    Second Vice-President,
                Dr. SHERMAN WILLIAMS, Glens Falls.

                    Third Vice-President,
                 JOHN BOULTON SIMPSON, Bolton.

                         Treasurer,
                JAMES A. HOLDEN, Glens Falls.

                         Secretary,
                 ROBERT O. BASCOM, Fort Edward.

                     Assistant Secretary,
              FREDERICK B. RICHARDS, Ticonderoga.




                          TRUSTEES.

                          * * * * *

 Mr. Asahel R. Wing, Fort Edward                 Term Expires 1906
 Mr. Elmer J. West, Glens Falls                       "       1906
 Rev. John H. Brandow, Schoharie                      "       1906
 Hon. Grenville M. Ingalsbe, Sandy Hill               "       1906
 Col. William L. Stone, Mt. Vernon                    "       1906
 Mr. Morris Patterson Ferris, New York                "       1906
 Hon. George G. Benedict, Burlington, Vt.             "       1906
 Hon. James A. Roberts, New York                      "       1907
 Col. John L. Cunningham, Glens Falls                 "       1907
 Mr. James A. Holden, Glens Falls                     "       1907
 Mr. John Boulton Simpson, Bolton                     "       1907
 Rev. Dr. C. Ellis Stevens, New York                  "       1907
 Dr. Everett R. Sawyer, Sandy Hill                    "       1907
 Mr. Elwyn Seele, Lake George                         "       1907
 Mr. Frederick B. Richards, Ticonderoga               "       1907
 Mr. Howland Pell, New York                           "       1907
 Gen. Henry E. Tremain, New York                      "       1908
 Mr. William Wait, Kinderhook                         "       1908
 Dr. Sherman Williams, Glens Falls                    "       1908
 Mr. Robert O. Bascom, Fort Edward                    "       1908
 Mr. Francis W. Halsey, New York                      "       1908
 Mr. Harry W. Watrous, Hague                          "       1908
 Com. John W. Moore, Bolton Landing                   "       1908
 Rev. Dr. Joseph E. King, Fort Edward                 "       1908
 Hon. Hugh Hastings, Albany                           "       1908




                          PROCEEDINGS
                             Of The

   Seventh Annual Meeting of the New York State Historical
            Association, held August 22d, 1905, at the
               Court House, Lake George, N. Y.

                          * * * * *

At the Seventh Annual Meeting of the New York State Historical
Association, held at Lake George on the 22d day of August, 1905, a
quorum being present, the President, James A. Roberts, called the
meeting to order, whereupon it was duly moved, seconded and carried,
that the reading of the minutes be dispensed with.

The report of the Treasurer, James A. Holden, was read and adopted after
having been approved by the auditors, Dr. Joseph E. King and the Hon.
Grenville M. Ingalsbe.

It was further moved, seconded and carried, that the annual publication
of the society be not sent to those members who are two or more years
in arrears in their dues.

Dr. Sherman Williams, chairman of the committee on historic spots,
reported orally that arrangements had been made for the erection of a
boulder with a bronze tablet at Half-Way Brook, and that arrangements
were in progress for marking other spots in the vicinity of Lake George.
The report was accepted and the committee continued, and the committee
were requested to make a written report with a historic sketch relating
to the spots marked and proposed to be marked, which report together
with a cut of the tablets erected and to be erected shall be published
in the proceedings of the Association.

Mr. Harry W. Watrous, chairman of the committee on Fort Ticonderoga, by
Mr. Grenville M. Ingalsbe reported progress.

Upon the suggestion of the chairman the following committee on Fort
Ticonderoga was appointed for the ensuing year:

Mrs. Elizabeth Watrous, Mr. John Boulton Simpson, Mr. Geo. O. Knapp.

The committee on program made an oral report, which was adopted.

A vote of thanks was extended to Gen. Tremain for his very liberal gift
to the Association reported by the treasurer.

A vote of thanks was extended to the committee on program.

The following new members were elected:

 Alice Brooks Wyckoff, Elmira, N. Y.
 Hon. F. W. Hatch, N. Y. City.
 Hon. Albert Haight, Albany, N. Y.
 Hon. John Woodward, Brooklyn, N. Y.
 Mr. E. B. Hill, 49 Wall Street, N. Y. City.
 Rev. Dr. Thos. B. Slicer, N. Y. City.
 Mr. G. C. Lewis, Albany, N. Y.
 Dr. George S. Eveleth, Little Falls, N. Y.
 George C. Rowell, 81 Chapel Street, Albany, N. Y.
 Mr. James F. Smith, So. Hartford, N. Y.
 Mr. George Foster Peabody, Lake George, N. Y.
 Mr. Grenville H. Ingalsbe, Sandy Hill, N. Y.
 Mr. A. N. Richards, Sandy Hill, N. Y.
 Mr. Irwin W. Near, Hornellsville, N. Y.
 Mr. Archibald Stewart, Derby, Sandy Hill, N. Y.
 Mr. Alvaro D. Arnold, Sandy Hill, N. Y.
 Mr. Richard C. Tefft, Sandy Hill, N. Y.
 Mr. F. D. Howland, Sandy Hill, N. Y.
 Mr. A. W. Abrams.
 Mr. D. M. Alexander, Buffalo, N. Y.
 Mr. Philip M. Hull, Clinton, N. Y.
 Addie E. Hatfield, 17 Linwood Place, Utica, N. Y.
 George K. Hawkins, Plattsburgh, N. Y.
 Dr. Claude A. Horton, Glens Falls, N. Y.
 Dr. E. T. Horton, Whitehall, N. Y.
 Gen. T. S. Peck, Burlington, Vt.
 Myron F. Westover, Schenectady, N. Y.
 Dr. Wm. C. Sebring, Kingston, N. Y.
 Mr. Neil M. Ladd, 646 Fulton Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.
 Mr. J. Hervey Cook, Fishkill-on-the-Hudson, N. Y.
 Mr. H. L. Broughton, Sandy Hill, N. Y.
 Daniel L. Van Hee, Rochester, N. Y.
 Edmund Wetmore, 34 Pine Street, N. Y. City.
 Mrs. Lydia F. Upson, Glens Falls, N. Y.
 Mr. Daniel F. Imrie, Lake George, N. Y.
 Mr. James Green, Lake George, N. Y.
 Mr. Edwin J. Worden, Lake George, N. Y.

Dr. Sherman Williams moved that the chair appoint a committee of two to
take into consideration an amendment to the constitution relating to
the payment of dues.

Carried.

Whereupon the chair appointed as such committee Robert O. Bascom and
James A. Holden.

Hon. Grenville M. Ingalsbe offered the following resolution.

_Resolved,_ That the President be authorized to appoint a committee of
three to investigate and report to the next annual meeting as to the
feasibility of co-operation and of the establishment of a community of
action between this association and the various other historical
societies in the State, which resolution was unanimously adopted.

After some discussion, participated in by various members of the
Association, it was regularly moved, seconded and carried, that a
committee of three be appointed by the president upon membership,
whereupon the president appointed the following committee:

Dr. Ellis C. Stevens, with power to name his associates.

The following trustees were unanimously elected by ballot for the term
of three years:

Gen. Henry E. Tremain, N. Y. City; William Wait, Kinderhook, N. Y.;
Dr. Sherman Williams, Glens Falls, N. Y.; Robert O. Bascom, Fort Edward,
N. Y.; Francis W. Halsey, New York; Harry W. Watrous, Hague, N. Y.; Rev.
Dr. Joseph E. King, Fort Edward, N. Y.; Hon. Hugh Hastings, Albany,
N. Y.; Com. John W. Moore, Bolton Landing, N. Y.

Rev. Mr. Hatch and Rev. Mr. Black presented for the consideration of the
Association the subject of the erection of a museum building. After some
discussion it was moved, seconded and carried, that the thanks of the
Association be tendered to the gentlemen for bringing the matter to the
attention of the Association, after which the meeting was adjourned
until two o'clock in the afternoon.



               August 22d, 1905.--Afternoon Session.

              _Symposium--The Sullivan Expedition._

At the adjourned session held in the afternoon August 22d, 1905, Dr.
W. C. Sebring, of Kingston, read a paper entitled, "The Character of
Gen. Sullivan."

A paper entitled "The Primary Cause of the Border Wars," by Francis W.
Halsey, of New York, was read by the Hon. Grenville M. Ingaslsbe in the
absence of Mr. Halsey.

Dr. Sherman Williams, of Glens Falls, read a monograph entitled, "The
Organization of Sullivan's Expedition."

Hon. Grenville M. Ingalsbe read by title only a paper entitled, "A
Bibliography of Sullivan's Expedition."

A paper entitled, "An Indian Civilization and its Destruction," by Col.
S. W. Moulthrop, was read by the Rev. W. H. P. Hatch in the absence of
Col. Moulthrop.

A paper entitled, "The Campaign," was read by William Wait, of
Kinderhook, when the meeting adjourned until August 23d, at 10 o'clock
A. M., at the same place.

                                 ROBERT O. BASCOM,

                                       _Secretary._




                       TRUSTEES' MEETING.

                                 August 23d, 1905.

At a meeting of the Trustees of the New York State Historical
Association held at Lake George on the 22d day of August, 1905, a
quorum being present, the following officers were elected:

 President, Hon. Jas. A. Roberts, Buffalo, N. Y.
 First Vice-President, Hon. G. M. Ingalsbe, Sandy Hill, N. Y.
 Second Vice-President, Dr. Sherman Williams, Glens Falls, N. Y.
 Third Vice-President, John Boulton Simpson, Bolton, N. Y.
 Treasurer, James A. Holden, Glens Falls, N. Y.
 Secretary, Robert O. Bascom, Fort Edward, N. Y.
 Asst. Secretary, Frederick B. Richards, Ticonderoga, N. Y.

The printing bill of E. H. Lisk was presented to the Trustees and after
discussion the same was referred to the Treasurer and Secretary with
power to settle the same.

The following committees were appointed:

_Standing Committee on Legislation:_
    Hon. James A. Roberts,
    Gen. Henry E. Tremain,
    Dr. Sherman Williams,
    Morris Patterson Ferris,
    Hon. Hugh Hastings.

_On Marking Historic Spots:_
    Dr. Sherman Williams,
    Frederick B. Richards,
    James A. Holden,
    Asahel R. Wing,
    Hon. Grenville M. Ingalsbe.

_On Fort Ticonderoga:_
    Mrs. Elizabeth Watrous,
    John Boulton Simpson,
    George O. Knapp.

_On Program:_
    Hon. Grenville M. Ingalsbe,
    Dr. Sherman Williams,
    Dr. C. Ellis Stevens.

_On Membership:_
    Dr. C. Ellis Stevens.

Bill of the Secretary for postage, express and sundries was thereupon
audited and ordered paid, whereupon the meeting adjourned.

At a meeting of the Trustees it was moved, seconded and carried, that
E. M. Ruttenber, of Newburgh, N. Y., be made an honorary member of the
Association.

                                    ROBERT O. BASCOM,

                                             _Secretary._



                          * * * * *

                     ASSOCIATION MEETING.

                                            August 23d, 1905.

At the adjourned session held August 22d, a paper entitled, "Concerning
the Mohawks," was read by W. Max Reid, of Amsterdam, N. Y., after which
the Hon. Grenville M. Ingalsbe read certain hitherto unpublished letters
from Gen. George Washington relating to the "Sullivan Expedition," after
which a resolution was adopted requesting that Mr. Ingalsbe furnish the
same for publication in the ensuing volume of the proceedings of the
Association.

An address entitled, "Robert R. Livingston, the Author of the Louisiana
Purchase," by Hon. D. S. Alexander, of Buffalo, N. Y., concluded the
session, and after a vote of thanks to the various speakers, the meeting
adjourned until two o'clock in the afternoon of the same day, at which
session a paper entitled, "The Birth at Moreau of the Temperance
Reformation," by Dr. Charles A. Ingraham, of Cambridge, was read.

The annual address, "The Democratic Ideal in History," by Hon. Milton
Reed, of Fall River, Massachusetts, concluded the literary exercises of
this meeting, and after a vote of thanks to the speakers of the
afternoon the meeting adjourned sine die.

                                        ROBERT O. BASCOM,

                                             _Secretary._



                          * * * * *

                       TRUSTEES' MEETING.

At a meeting of the Trustees of the New York State Historical
Association, held at the Hotel Ten Eyck on the 19th day of January,
1906, in the City of Albany.

Present, Hon. James A. Roberts, President; Hon. Grenville M. Ingalsbe,
First Vice-President; Dr. Sherman Williams, Second Vice-President; Hon.
Hugh Hastings, Trustee; Hon. Robert O. Bascom, Secretary.

The meeting being duly called to order by the President, the semi-annual
report of James A. Holden, Treasurer, was read and adopted.

The report is as follows:

                     SEMI-ANNUAL REPORT
                             of

     J. A. Holden, Treasurer New York State Historical Association,
               From July 1, 1905, to Jan. 18, 1906.

                            RECEIPTS.

 July 1, 1905--Cash on hand                  $194.73
               Received from dues, etc.       390.10
                                                ____
                                                    $584.83

                          DISBURSEMENTS.

 Aug. 5, E. H. Lisk, printing                $200.00
  "   5, R. O. Bascom, postage and sundries    27.50
 Sep. 8, E. H. Lisk, printing                  62.25
 Sep. 7, R. O. Bascom, postage                 23.28
  "   7, Milton Reid, expenses                 15.31
 Nov. 8, E. H. Lisk, printing                  31.75
 Dec. 4, R. O. Bascom, stamps                  10.00
  "  11, R. O. Bascom,   "                     10.00
 Jan. 9, Postage                                5.00
                                                ____
                                                    385.09
                                                    ______
        Cash on hand                               $199.74

                            ASSETS.
                    Cash on hand          $199.74
                    Life Membership Fund   271.40

                          Respectfully submitted,
                                  JAMES A. HOLDEN,
                                          _Treasurer._

The report of the committee on amendments to the Constitution was
read and laid upon the table.

The report of Committee on Marking Historic Spots was read and adopted.
The report is as follows:

                               Glens Falls, N. Y., Jan. 18, 1906.

_To the Trustees of the New York State Historical Association,_

_Gentlemen:_--I beg to report progress in regard to the work of the
committee on marking Historic Spots. A good number of persons have made
contributions ranging from five to fifty dollars each. A marker has
been erected at Half-Way Brook and another planned for at Bloody Pond.
The tablet at Half-Way Brook was made under the direction of W. J.
Scales, who is also to prepare the design for the one at Bloody Pond.
The marker at Half-Way Brook is a large boulder resting upon another
large boulder nearly buried in the ground. The boulders are large and
very hard, and the cost of cutting them to fit was unexpectedly great.
Both boulders were drawn from a long distance. The cost of drawing and
erecting them, and getting them ready for the tablet was about one
hundred and ten dollars. This work was supervised by Mr. Henry Crandall,
who had subscribed fifty dollars toward the work. When it was finished
he said that if I would cancel his subscription he would meet all the
expense of getting the stones in place. As this was more than twice the
amount of his subscription his offer was gladly accepted. The other
expenses to date have been as follows:

 For cutting a smooth face on the boulder and
     fitting tablet to it                                  $25.25
 For photographing the monument                              1.00
 Paid Mr. Scales on account                                 45.00
                                                           ______
                                                     Total  $71.25

In the Spring it will be necessary to meet a small expense to grade the
ground and seed it. We hope to have the marker at Bloody Pond in place
before our next annual meeting.

                           Respectfully submitted,
                                    SHERMAN WILLIAMS,
             _Chairman of Committee for Marking Historic Spots._

 The following new members were duly elected:

 Applegate, Rev. Dr. Octavius, Newburgh, N. Y.
 Atkins, Hon. T. Astley, 73 Nassau Street, N. Y.
 Benjamin, Rev. Dr. William H., Irvington-on-Hudson, N. Y.
 Bunten, Roland, Garden City, N. Y.
 Brooks, James B., 1013 East Adams Street, Syracuse, N. Y.
 Bockus, Dr. Truman J., Packer Institute, Brooklyn, N, Y.
 Banker, Dr. Silas J., Fort Edward, N. Y.
 Cooke, Rev. Jere K., Hempstead, N. Y,
 Coon, Hon. Stephen Mortimer, Oswego, N. Y.
 Clark, Rev. Joseph B., Fourth Ave. and 22d St., N. Y. City.
 Clark, Walter A., 755 Main Street, Geneva, N. Y.
 Donnell, Rev. Dr. William Nichold, 292 Henry St.. N. Y.
 Davis, William Gilbert, 32 Nassau Street, N. Y.
 Davis, Dr. Booth C., Alfred, N. Y.
 de Peyster, Mrs. Beekman, 2345 Broadway, N. Y. (winter),
     Johnstown, N. Y. (summer).
 Draper, Hon. A. S., Albany, N. Y.
 Gunnison, Hon. Royal A., Juneau, Alaska.
 Hopson, Rev. Dr. George B., Annandale, N. Y.
 Horton, Mrs. John Miller, 736 Main St., Buffalo, N. Y.
 Ingalsbe, Franc Groesbeck, Sandy Hill, N. Y.
 Jessup, Rev. Chas. A., Greenport, N. Y.
 Jessup, Morris K., 195 Madison Avenue, N. Y,
 Joline, Dr. Adrien H., 54 Wall Street, N. Y.
 Jackson, Rev. Dr. T. G., 6851 Paul's Place, Brooklyn, N. Y.
 Kirby, Dr. R. M., Potsdam, N. Y.
 Krotel, Rev. Dr., 65 Convent Avenue, N. Y.
 Leavey, Russell H., 147 W. 21st Street, N. Y.
 Lefferts, Marshall C., 30 Washington Place, N. Y.
 Lewis, George C., Albany, N. Y.
 Mace, Dr. William H., Syracuse, N. Y.
 Martin, John, Pittsburgh, N. Y.
 Morton, Hon. Levi Parsons, 681 Fifth Avenue, N. Y.
 Mills, D. O., 634 Fifth Avenue, N. Y.
 Munger, Rev. Dr. R. D., 105 Delaware Street, Syracuse, N. Y.
 Morgan, Rev. Dr. D. Parker, 3 East 45th Street, N. Y.
 Nottingham, William, 701 Walnut Avenue, Syracuse, N. Y.
 Nelson, Ven. George F., 29 Lafayette Place, N. Y.
 Olmsted, Rt. Rev. Chas. Tyler, 159 Park Avenue, Utica, N. Y.
 O'Brien, M. J., 195 Broadway, N. Y.
 Paige, Edward Winslow, 44 Cedar Street, New York.
 Pierce, Rev. Dr. Walter Franklin, 16 S. Elliott Place, Brooklyn.
 Rogers, Howard J., Albany, N. Y,
 Rhoades, W. C. P., 400 Putnam Avenue, Brooklyn, N. Y.
 Sill, Dr. Frederick S., 169 Mohawk Street, Cohoes, N. Y.
 Schell, F. Robert, 280 Broadway, N. Y.
 Smith, William Alex., 412 Madison Avenue, N. Y.
 Samson, William H., 420 Oxford Street, Rochester, N. Y.
 Sillo, Dr. Chas. Morton, Geneva, N. Y.
 Seabury, Rev. Dr. William Jones, 8 Chelsea Square, N. Y.
 Stackpole, George F., Riverhead, N. Y.
 Sims, Charles N., Liberty, Indiana.
 Steele, Mrs. Esther B., 532 W. Clinton Street, Elmira, N. Y.
 Stilwell, Giles H., 1906 West Genesee St., Syracuse, N. Y.
 Sheddon, Hon. Lucian L., Plattsburgh, N. Y.
 Silver, Dr. John Archer, Geneva, N. Y.
 Spencer, Dr. Charles W., Princeton, N. J.
 Vanderveer, Dr. A., 28 Eagle Street, Albany, N. Y.
 Waller, Rev. Henry D., Flushing, N. Y.
 Watson, Col. Jas. T., Clinton, N. Y.
 Welch, Miss J. M., 76 Johnston Park, Buffalo, N. Y.
 Willey, Rev. John H., 466 East 18th Street, N. Y.
 Willis, James D., 40 East 39th Street, N. Y.

The thanks of the Trustees were extended to Dr. Stevens for his services
as chairman of the Committee on Membership. The Secretary and Mr.
William Wait, of Kinderhook, were by motion duly carried appointed a
committee on the publication of the Proceedings of the Association. The
edition was fixed at 750 copies and the Secretary instructed not to send
proceedings to persons who were more than four years in arrears, after
which the meeting adjourned.

                                       ROBERT O. BASCOM,
                                               _Secretary._




                   CHARACTER OF GEN. SULLIVAN.

                          * * * * *

                     By Dr. W. C. Sebring.

                          * * * * *

How the mists do gather. With the exception of Greene and Benedict
Arnold, George Washington trusted Sullivan beyond any other general of
the Continental army. Sullivan acquitted himself well on diverse
battlefields and, though defeated, the real worth of the man shows in
this, that defeat added as much prestige to his reputation as his
victories. His greatness like that of Washington throve on defeat, for
it can be fairly said that Washington never won a battle. And yet if
you ask even those who have given time to our history as to General
Sullivan, they will convey to you but the most vague impression of some
minor general who sometime in the revolution made a foray on some
Indians somewhere in this State.

The last scene of a drama is best remembered. The picture as the curtain
falls is stamped most clearly on the memory. Sullivan was not to be an
actor in the war's closing scenes, and the valor that gleams the name
of Marion, the splendor of Greene's military intelligence, and the glory
that is linked with the name of Washington at Yorktown were not his.
Neither had he the methodical madness of Wayne, the pusillanimity of
the self-seeking Gates, the recklessness of Putnam, nor the aestheistic
fatalism of Ethan Allan; none of these things had Sullivan to carve his
picture on men's memory.

It may not be out of place here to give a short chronology of this man's
life.

He was born in Summerworth, N. H., in 1740. His parents were well-to-do
emigrants from Ireland. He studied law and was a member of the first
Congress, 1774. Was made Brigadier General 1775. In 1776 he superseded
Arnold in Canada. Then he succeeded General Greene and was taken
prisoner. He was exchanged in November. In 1777 he took part in the
battle of Brandywine, Germantown, and 1778 he commanded in Rhode Island.
In 1779 he led the expedition against the Indians. He then resigned from
the army and took up again the practice of law. He was a member of the
State constitutional convention, then he was elected a member of
Congress, and in '86, '87, '89 was president of his State. Later, in
1789, he was appointed District Judge, and died in 1795 at the age of
54 years.

His personal characteristics are said to be that he was a dignified,
genial and amiable man. He displayed a fine courtesy to those about him,
both to his soldiers and compatriot generals.

I quote the following paragraph from A. Tiffany Norton, who I believe to
be the one who has written the best account of the Indian campaign, and
it is a wonder to me that one who shows so broad a grasp of history and
its essential principles and the elements that make for historical
research, has never written more than he has.

Norton, in his general description of Sullivan, says: "His eyes were
keen and dark, his hair curly black, his form erect, his movements full
of energy and grace. His height was five feet nine inches, and a slight
corpulency when in his prime gave but an added grace. General Sullivan
was a man of undoubted courage, warmth of temperament and independent
spirit equaled only by his patriotic devotion to his country's cause
and his zeal in all public affairs." Doubtless he was too impatient and
outspoken and may have been deserving of some measure of blame, still
his faults should not have detracted from that meed of praise to which
he was justly entitled. Neither should the jealousies of his brothers in
arms, which prompted them to ridicule his achievements, question his
reports and detract from his hard-earned laurels, have weight with the
historian. Yet such has been, in great degree, the case, and the name of
Sullivan occupies a lesser space in the history of the Revolutionary
struggle, than those of many others whose achievements fell far short
of his in magnitude and importance. Sullivan has been made the victim of
the intrigues and petty jealousies of his times, and while for this his
own indiscretions may justly be blamed, the duty is none the less
incumbent on the present generation to render due homage to one who is
a brave soldier and a devoted, disinterested, self-sacrificing patriot.
As Amory has justly said: "A friend of Washington, Greene, Lafayette,
and all the noblest statesmen and generals of the war, whose esteem for
him was universally known, to whom his own attachment never wavered,
he will be valued for his high integrity and steadfast faith, his loyal
and generous character, his enterprise and vigor in command, his
readiness to assume responsibility, his courage and coolness in
emergencies, his foresight for providing for all possible contingencies
of campaign or battle-field, and his calmness when the results became
adverse."

Could the character of Sullivan be fairly said to be that of a great
man? Does he measure up to "bigness?" Remember a little man seldom does
big things. Briefly, what did he do in this Indian campaign? At the
beginning of the Revolution there was a democracy of six confederate
states within the present boundaries of our own municipality. So strong
had this democracy grown that it dominated the inhabitants of a
territory of more than a million square miles. Their battle-cry was
heard from the Kennebec to Lake Superior, and under the very
fortifications of Quebec they annihilated the Huron.

Their orators were fit to rank with any that we have to-day. Their
legends are the legends of a people whose souls were filled with poetry.
Their military tactics were those of a people trained for war--successful
war. Man to man, they were what no other barbarians have been, a match
for the white man. They held the gateway to the West and their position
made them umpires between the mighty nations of the Old World who were
struggling for the possession of the New. Civilized in a sense they
were, but they were barbarians too, and savages to their very heart of
hearts. Rapacious, treacherous, cruel beyond belief,--they were dreaded
alike by friend and foe. Their home was a _terra incognita._ No colonist
had trodden it. From no peak had trapper looked across the profile of
their land. Their numbers were unknown and could only be guessed at by
their achievements--and these were terrible.

How silly of Gordon to criticize Sullivan for over-manning his
expedition. Darkest Africa is better known to-day than was then the land
of the Iroquois. They were re-enforced by British regulars, by fanatical
Tories; they were led by white men, and one of their leaders was a
thorough Indian and thoroughly educated in the white man's lore.

Among this people and into this _terra incognita_ came Sullivan and
smote them hip and thigh. He conquered them to the uttermost. He broke
down the gateway to the mighty West. With a miserable commissariat, he
invaded an unknown country and forever destroyed a democracy that had
ruled for five hundred years.

The Indians conquered by Wayne were but a frazzle of the Six Nations
united with Indians farther West.

Little men do little things, big men do big things, and great men do
great things. Before Sullivan vanished

      "that savage senate at the Lake,
      By the salt marshes, yonder in the north,
      Dull-visaged butchers, coarsely blanketed
      Squatted in a ring by their dark Council House
      And with strange mumery of pipes and belts
      Decreeing, coldly, death--forever death."

The strongest are the gentlest. It is related that having found an
Indian woman too old and feeble to retreat with her people, that
Sullivan left her with a plentiful supply of provisions, though, as one
of the party writes, "we only had half a ration every other day
ourselves."

It is not my province to put forth a brief for General Sullivan, yet
that one incident cast a side-light on his character that impressed me
more as to the true lovely heartiness of the man than anything I have
found. Constancy to a friend is an attribute to those who approach
greatness. After the Indian war Sullivan was reviled unmercifully for
the devastation wrought by him in the Indian country. Out of his love
for General Washington he suffered in silence, while he had in his
possession General Washington's written instructions to do exactly as he
had done.

Perchance for a good man some would even dare to die. But what of a man
whose friendship holds so strong that he may see that which is dearer
to him than life--his character--filched from him, and lest he should
harm a friend, allow his enemies to do with that character as they
wished.

Probably no historian ever lived who could write more wrong history than
Benjamin Lossing, who accuses Sullivan of carelessness and want of
vigilance as a commanding officer and mentions Bedford and Brandywine.
Nothing could be farther from the truth. At Bedford he withdrew his
forces because the French Navy would not support him, and it was out of
the question to remain in the position he had taken up. We have John
Fiske's word for it that Brandywine was a drawn battle.

Of energy he had a plenty. It is on record that after he and General
Clinton united (and Clinton was no sluggard) his Division time and again
out-marched that of Clinton. At one time he broke road across nine miles
of swamp while Clinton following him had to camp in the middle of the
morass. So difficult was the morass that the Indian spies who had been
watching his advance never dreamed that he would attempt the passage of
the swamp, and withdrew to their camps. So confident were the Tories and
Indians, that when he emerged from the swamp their campfires were still
burning.

Right here is a place to say a word about General Sullivan's veracity.
After his return from conquering the Six Nations he reported that he had
destroyed forty villages, and his detractors could not find but
eighteen. It at last developed that when his subordinates had reported
destroying a group of buildings he most naturally supposed that it was
an Indian village, and so put it down in his report.

It has been said of him that he resigned from the army out of spite.
Well, if he did, he was perhaps blamable. But we should remember that he
was dealing with a Continental Congress of the latter years of the war,
and if you search history for a thousand years you will not be able to
find an aggregation of political castros equal to this same Continental
Congress. The men who had made the primal congresses great had set
themselves to serve the nation in other ways, and Congress had fallen
to those who had some money without brains or brains without principle,
or lacking both, were like our modern ones in that they loved "graft"
and knew how to get it.

Sullivan was not a liar, and he himself says that his health was
failing. If we care to plow through the many diaries kept by officers
under him we can well believe that he told the truth, for with the
spoiling of the provisions sent to the expedition most of the soldiers
did suffer from chronic intestinal troubles, and it would be strange if
the commander who takes the same fare as his subordinates should not
suffer in the same manner.

And to back up this we must remember that even after he retired he never
lost the confidence or the love of the greatest of them all, General
Washington. Much has been written of General Sullivan's fallibilities,
and fallibilities the greatest have.

We should remember that Sullivan was a Kelt. And through the centuries
the Kelts have given us the lordliest orators and golden artists, but
for tenacity of purpose no one has celebrated them.

General Sullivan when he was taken prisoner and fell under the influence
of the British military power, and contrasting them with the meagerness
that he had been accustomed to, for once his heart failed him and his
soul sank within him, and it is no sorrow to his name to say that for
the moment he thought the liberty of mankind in the Western continent
was doomed.

He came from the British to us seeking peace, but after he was exchanged
and in his old environment his true native Keltic courage returned and
his after life was the life of an ardent patriot.

I do not think we give enough credit to the perceptions of the ignorant.

Suppose to ten thousand ignorant people this entirely hypothetical
question should be stated: Around the globe is a people who for three
hundred years had been fighting a tyrannical power and well nigh
achieved success. Would it be right for a republic to step in and take
them away from the power they were in rebellion against, and then this
republic by force of arms prevent them from becoming an independent
republic? State to ten thousand ignorant people this question, and they
will shout with one voice "that it is not right." State this question
to ten thousand college professors, and they will back and fill, debate
and re-debate, and finally be fogged by their very knowledge and at last
come to no conclusion at all.

It has never been sufficiently made clear that the classes fought the
Revolutionary war. The educated, the elegant, the conservative, the
well-to-do, in short the "better elements," were practically all with
the British. While the broken, the ignorant, the discouraged, "the
rabble," were the ones that won our liberty. Every single Tory that
was expatriated could read and write, while I believe if the muster
rolls of my own county, inhabited at that time by the educated Dutch,
not one-third of those who enlisted could sign their names. So coldly
did the wealthy Dutchman look upon the war that it was a common trick
for him to send a slave to serve in the ranks instead of himself.

Sullivan by birth and position belonged among the former class, and yet
in spite of position, broke with his own class and gladly took up the
sword with the ignorant because he saw clearly that all social progress
must from very necessity spring from the discontent of the _Hoi Polloi._
He was a true patriot for he lost his all by giving his attention to
public rather than private affairs, and though respected by all and
honored by his State, his last years were the years of gloom and the
gathering clouds, for his life was beset by heartless creditors. The
last scene is the saddest of all, for at his funeral his creditors tried
to seize his body and would have done so, except that an old army
general drew his pistols and drove off the bailiffs of the law. So was
buried one of America's greatest patriots, a constant friend, a brave
and good soldier, and a man who, take him ail in all, it is not an
exaggeration to call "Great."




                  THE PRIMARY CAUSES OF THE
                         BORDER WARS

                          * * * * *

                     By Francis W. Halsey.

                          * * * * *


General Sullivan's expedition of 1779 was an immediate outcome of the
massacres of Wyoming and Cherry Valley in the summer and autumn of
1778--not to mention those minor incidents of the Border Wars, which,
beginning in the summer of 1777, had converted the valley of the upper
Susquehanna into a land of desolation. It was a most drastic punishment
that Sullivan inflicted, and such it was intended by Congress that his
work should be. "The immediate objects," said Washington, in his letter
of instruction to Sullivan, "are the total destruction and devastation
of the Indian settlements," He added that the Indian country was "not
to be merely overrun, but destroyed." If we have regard for proportions,
greater losses were inflicted upon the Indians by Sullivan than were
ever inflicted upon the settlements of New York by the Indians.

The expedition, however, failed completely in achieving its main
purpose, which was to suppress the Indian raids. Sullivan and his army
had scarcely left the Western country, when the Indian attacks were
renewed and for three years were continued with a savage energy before
unknown. The Indians' thirst for revenge having been thoroughly aroused,
nothing could afterwards restrain their hands. Aside from the burning
of German Flats and the battle of Oriskany (the latter not properly an
incident of the Border Wars, since it was an integral part of the
Burgoyne campaign), the injury done by the Indians to the Mohawk Valley
was done subsequent to the Sullivan expedition.

In their entirety, the Border Wars constitute a phase of the Revolution
of which far too little has been remembered. We may seek in vain for a
territory elsewhere in the United States where so much destruction was
done to non-combatants. In Tryon county alone, 12,000 farms went out of
cultivation; fully two-thirds of the population either died or fled,
While of the one-third who remained 300 were widows and 2,000 orphans.
And yet, as I have said, the losses of the Iroquois were greater still.

But it is with the causes which led to this savage work that I am here
to deal. For quite 100 years, Joseph Brant and the Tories of the Mohawk
Valley, with Col. Guy and Sir John Johnson, and John and Walter Butler,
at their head, were generally accepted as the original and inspiring
forces in all the barbarities committed. The greater offenders, however,
were men of much higher station and more ample powers--men who had never
seen the valleys of the Susquehanna and the Mohawk, but who lived in
London, and as members of the King's Cabinet were in direct charge of
the war in America. One of them was the Earl of Dartmouth, the other
Lord George Germaine; but it is to Germaine that we must ascribe the
chief odium.

The administration of the Province of New York, when the Revolution
began, was completely in the hands of Loyalists. New York was still a
Crown colony, officials holding their appointments directly from London.
Outside the official class, however, there were patriots in plenty; none
of the colonies possessed more; but as New York City was completely
dominated by Tory influences, so was the Mohawk Valley dominated by the
Johnsons and their army of followers, in whom loyalty to England was a
deep-seated sentiment and a fixed principle of conduct. Sir William
Johnson had died just as the Revolution was about to begin. His
successors became not only as great Loyalists as ever he had been, but,
being men of smaller minds and fewer talents. They added to the
sentiment of loyalty an expression of it which took the form of satanic
bitterness and brute savagery. It was these men who, with their
followers, became the hated Tories of the frontier of New York--men of
whom in some instances, Joseph Brant said, they had been more savage
than the savages themselves.

The attitude of the Indians can be best understood if we remember that
they had been practically in alliance with the English of New York for
a hundred years. When war began between the mother country and the
colonies, or between what the Indians called "two brother nations,"
they were lost in amazement and tried in vain to understand it. Their
own history for three hundred years had been one of peace between
brother nations. "No taxation without representation" was a principle
beyond their comprehension. The men who defied British soldiers in the
streets of New York and Boston seemed to them exactly like the French
of Canada who in the older wars had stormed English forts on the
Northern Frontier, since they were engaged in war with the King of
England, and the King was the Indians' powerful friend.

When the Border Wars reached their height, the frontier of New York
should have been in a state of tranquility. With Burgoyne's surrender,
the center of conflict was to pass away from New York and New England,
and was soon to be transferred to Virginia, Georgia, and South Carolina.
Why then, these Border Wars in New York? In one short sentence, the
whole truth may be disclosed. The ministry of George III, after long and
laborious efforts, now at last had won the Indians of New York into
active sympathy with their cause. For three years they had tried in vain
to gain their support, and again and again had held counsels with them,
but the net results had been an essentially neutral stand by the
Indians.

But let us recapitulate. Soon after the battle of Lexington, Col. Guy
Johnson, the official successor of Sir William, convened at his home
near Amsterdam, a conference with the Indians, mostly Mohawks, and
later, after the result at Bunker Hill had alarmed him anew, fled to
Oswego and thence to Canada. Nearly all the Mohawk Indians went with
him, as well as a domestic force of about 500 white men, mainly Scotch
Highlanders, over whom he had placed in command, Col. John Butler. In
July Col. Johnson reached Montreal, Where he had an interview with Sir
Frederick Haldemand, who said to the Indians:

 "Now is the time for you to help the King. The war has begun. Assist
 him now, and you will find it to your advantage. Whatever you lose
 during the war, the King will make up to you when peace returns."

Later in the same month, the Earl of Dartmouth, then a member of the
British Cabinet, wrote from London to Col. Johnson, that it was the
King's pleasure "That you lose no time in taking such steps as may
induce the Indians to take up the hatchet against his Majesty's
rebellious subjects in America." This letter was accompanied by a large
assortment of presents for the Indians, and Col. Johnson was urged not
to fail to use "the utmost diligence and activity" in accomplishing
the purpose. Col. Johnson was joined in Canada in the spring of the
following year by his brother-in-law, Sir John Johnson, the son and heir
of Sir William. Sir John had organized a force known as the Royal
Greens, composed of loyalists from the New York frontier, and mainly
former tenants and dependents of his father's estate.

The Mohawks, who alone of all the Six Nations had gone to Canada, were
slow to yield to the importunities of the English, in so far as taking
an active part in the war was concerned. A topic of far deeper interest
to them was their title to certain lands in the Mohawk and upper
Susquehanna Valleys, concerning which they had failed to secure
adjustments for many years. In November, 1775, Joseph Brant with other
Indian chiefs, sailed for England with a view to accomplishing a
settlement of this dispute. An interview took place with the Colonial
Secretary, who subsequently was in direct charge of the war in America,
Lord George Germaine. Brant made two speeches before Germaine, outlining
the grievances of his people, and it is clear from one of them that
Germaine then secured the adhesion of Brant to the English cause by
promising to redress the Indian grievances after the war, and to keep
for the Indians the favor and protection of the King. Thenceforth the
responsibility for Indian activity in the Revolution rests mainly on
Germaine. It was to him that Lord Chatham referred in a memorable speech
on the American War:

 "But, my lord, who is the man, that, in addition to the disgrace and
 mischiefs of the war, has dared to authorize and associate to our arms
 the tomahawk and scalping knife of the savage? To call into civilized
 alliance the wild and inhuman inhabitants of the woods? To delegate to
 the merciless Indian the defense of disputed right, and to wage the
 horrors of his barbarous war against our brethren? My lords, these
 enormities cry aloud for redress and punishment."

When the Burgoyne campaign began, Brant had arrived home. New efforts
were now actively put forth to enlist the Indians in British service. A
considerable company of them started south with Burgoyne, but they
subsequently deserted him before a battle had been fought, or even the
American army was discovered. With St. Leger a much larger force started
for a descent upon the Mohawk Valley. These were in direct charge of
Joseph Brant, and comprised the greater part of the efficient Mohawk
force. At Oswego a counsel had been held a few weeks before, in order
to enlist in British service the other "nations" of the Iroquois, who
were assured that the King was a man of great power and that they should
never want for food and clothing if they adhered to him. Rum, it was
said, would be "as plentiful as water in Lake Ontario." Presents were
made, and a bounty offered on every white man's scalp that they might
take. The Senecas notably, and to some extent the Onondagas and Cayugas,
thus became fired with ambition to see something of the war.

By the time St. Leger arrived at Oswego, about 700 warriors had been
secured. Some of them still remained lukewarm as to fighting, but they
were at last drawn into the campaign under an assurance that they need
not fight themselves, but might sit by during the battle smoking their
pipes, while they saw the redcoats "whip the rebels." The result was,
that when a battle was imminent at Oriskany, the Indian's love of war
was uppermost, and they became the most active participants in the
conflict. They also became proportionately the heaviest losers and
returned to their homes, not only with doleful shrieks and yells over
their losses, but with a determined purpose to revenge themselves on the
defenseless frontier. At what frightful cost to the Mohawk Valley they
secured that revenge, the story of the ensuing four years bears ample
witness.

But, as I have said, the Indians lost more. When the war was over, they
had practically lost everything. Their homes were destroyed and their
altars obliterated. England virtually abandoned them to the men whom
they had fought as rebels, but who were now victorious patriots, the
masters of imperial possessions. Nothing whatever was exacted for them
in the treaty of peace. Not even their names were mentioned. Such, at
the close of the war, was their pitiful state. Everything in the world
that they had, had been given to a cause, not their own--the cause of
an ally across the great waters, with whom they were keeping an ancient
covenant chain. When at last their wide domain, among whose streams and
forests for ages their race had found a home, passed forever from their
control, they might have said, with a pride more just than that of
Francis I., after the battle of Pavia, "All is lost save honor."




                  THE ORGANIZATION OF SULLIVAN'S
                          EXPEDITION.

                          * * * * *

                    By Dr. Sherman Williams.

                          * * * * *


History has not done justice to the subject in telling the story of
Sullivan's expedition. There are few if any equally important events in
our history of which the great majority of our people know so little.
It was the most important military event of 1779, fully one-third of the
Continental army being engaged in it. The campaign was carried on under
great difficulties, was brilliantly successful, and executed with but
small loss of life. It is possible that the movement would have received
more attention from the historians had the loss of life been much
greater, even if the results had been of less importance.

The chief result was the practical destruction of the Iroquois
Confederacy. While the Six Nations were very active on the frontier the
following year, the Confederacy as an organization had received its
death blow.

The massacres at Wyoming, along the New York frontier, especially in
the Mohawk, Schoharie and Susquehanna valleys, had so aroused the people
that the Continental Congress felt called upon to take action and on
the 27th of February, 1779, passed a resolution directing Washington to
take effective measures to protect the frontier.

It was decided to send a strong expedition against the Iroquois
settlements, and utterly destroy their towns and crops, more especially
in the territory of the Senecas and Cayugas. It was no small task to
equip a large force and traverse an almost unknown, and altogether
unmapped, wilderness which was wholly without roads, in the face of an
active and vigilant as well as relentless foe.

The command of the expedition was tendered to General Gates because of
his rank. In reply to the tender of the command General Gates wrote to
Washington as follows: "Last night I had the honor of your Excellency's
letter. The man who undertakes the Indian service should enjoy health
and strength, requisites I do not possess. It therefore grieves me that
your Excellency should offer me the only command to which I am entirely
unequal. In obedience to your command I have forwarded your letter to
General Sullivan."

Washington had evidently anticipated that Gates would not accept the
command as he had enclosed in his letter to him a communication that was
to be forwarded to Sullivan in case Gates declined the service. It was
this letter to which Gates referred in his reply to Washington. No doubt
it was fortunate for the country that the command of the expedition
devolved upon some other person than Gates.

Washington felt somewhat hurt at the tone of the letter he received from
Gates, and in a communication to the President of Congress he said, "My
letter to him on the occasion I believe you will think was conceived
in very candid and polite terms, and merited a different answer from the
one given to it."

In his instructions to Sullivan Washington wrote as follows:

 "Sir:--The expedition you are appointed to command is to be directed
 against the hostile tribes of the Six Nations of Indians, with their
 associates and adherents. The immediate object is their total
 destruction and devastation, and the capture of as many persons of
 every age and sex as possible. It will be essential to ruin their crops
 now in the ground and prevent their planting more."

At this time it was supposed that the expedition would reach the Indian
country in the early summer, but it was not until August that the work
of destruction began. Writing again of the expedition Washington said
the purpose was "to cut off their settlements, destroy their crops, and
inflict upon them every other mischief which time and circumstances
would permit."

The purpose of the expedition was primarily to destroy the crops and
villages of the Indians, after which Sullivan was to move forward and
capture Niagara, if such action should prove to be practicable.

The expedition was to be made up of three divisions. The first was
directly under the command of Sullivan; and the forces of which it was
composed assembled at Easton, Pa., from which point they marched to
Wyoming on the Susquehanna, and from there to Tioga Point. Here they
waited for the second division under the command of General Clinton, who
had sent an expedition into the Onondaga country, after which he was to
assemble his forces at Canajoharie and march across the country to the
head of Otsego Lake and then come down the Susquehanna River to join
Sullivan at Tioga. The third division was under the command of Colonel
Daniel Brodhead, who started from Pittsburgh, Pa. He never directly
co-operated with Sullivan, but no doubt aided him by his movement. He
left Pittsburgh on the 11th of August with a force of six hundred and
fifty men. He followed the Allegheny river and passed up into the Seneca
country, where he destroyed more than one hundred and fifty houses and
about five hundred acres of corn. His presence in the southern portion
of the Seneca country kept some of the Senecas from joining in the
movement to oppose Sullivan and so lessened the Indian force at the
battle of Newtown and possibly somewhat affected the expedition. The
original intention was to have Brodhead join Sullivan at Genesee and aid
in the movement against Niagara, but as for some reason no movement was
made against Niagara there was no occasion for him to do more than he
did, and no further attention need be given his movement as a part of
the Sullivan expedition. Brodhead marched three hundred and eighty
miles, destroyed houses, cornfields, and gardens, and did his part in
destroying the Indian civilization.

Aside from the force of Brodhead, Sullivan's expedition was made up of
four brigades. The first consisted of the First New Jersey regiment
under the command of Colonel Matthias Ogden; the Second New Jersey
commanded by Colonel Israel-Shreve; the Third New Jersey under Colonel
Elias Dayton, and Spencer's New Jersey regiment commanded by Colonel
Oliver Spencer. The brigade was under the command of Brigadier-General
William Maxwell.

Brigadier-General Enoch Poor commanded the second brigade, which was
made up of the First New Hampshire regiment under Colonel Joseph Cilley;
the Second New Hampshire commanded by Lieutenant-Colonel George Reid;
the Third New Hampshire commanded by Lieutenant-Colonel Henry Dearborn;
the Sixth Massachusetts under the command of Major Daniel Whiting. The
Sixth Massachusetts was at the outset a part of the fourth brigade, and
the Second New York was a part of the second brigade, but the two
regiments exchanged brigades in August, and from that time till the
close of the expeditions were in the brigades as given in this sketch.

The third brigade was commanded by Brigadier-General Edward Hand and was
composed of the Fourth Pennsylvania regiment under the command of
Lieutenant-Colonel William Butler; the Eleventh Pennsylvania under
Lieutenant-Colonel Hubley; the German Battalion under Major Daniel
Burchardt; an artillery regiment under Colonel Thomas Proctor; Morgan's
riflemen under Major James Parr; an independent rifle company under
Captain Anthony Selin; the Wyoming militia under Captain John Franklin;
and an independent Wyoming company under Captain Simon Spalding.

The fourth brigade, commanded by Brigadier-General James Clinton, was
made up of the Second New York regiment under Colonel Philip Van
Cortlandt; the Third New York under Colonel Peter Gansevoort; the Fourth
New York under Colonel Frederic Weissenfels; the Fifth New York under
Colonel Lewis Dubois; and the New York artillery detachment under
Captain Isaac Wool.

It would be exceedingly interesting to trace the movement of each of the
regiments engaged in the expedition from their place of starting to the
various rallying places, but in many instances the writer has been
unable to ascertain the facts after consulting all the works relating to
Sullivan's expedition to be found in the State library, and other
libraries, and after writing to the secretary of some of the state
historical societies. Therefore the assembling of the forces
constituting Sullivan's expedition will have to be treated in rather a
general way.

The New Hampshire regiments apparently wintered at Soldier's Fortune,
about six miles above Peekskill, as diaries of various New Hampshire
officers engaged in the expedition mention marching from that point and
I find no reference to any place occupied earlier. From Soldier's
Fortune the New Hampshire troops, certainly the Second and Third
regiments, and presumably the whole force, marched to Fishkill, a
distance of seventeen miles. At this point they crossed the Hudson river
to Newburgh. From that place they marched to the New Jersey line passing
through Orange county. They took a route leading through New Windsor,
Bethlehem, Bloomgrove Church, Chester, Warwick, and Hardiston. The
distance was thirty-eight miles. From Hardiston the force marched to
Easton on the Pennsylvania side of the Delaware river. It passed through
Sussex State House, Moravian Mills, Cara's Tavern, all these places
being in the state of New Jersey. The distance from Hardiston to Easton
was fifty-eight miles.

On the first of May, 1779, the Second and Fourth New York regiments left
their camp near the Hudson and marched to Warwarsing in the southwestern
part of Ulster county, thence to Ellenville, a few miles south of
Warwarsing, then to Mamacotting (now Wurtsboro) in Sullivan county. The
next day was spent in rest at Bashesland (now Westbrookville) near the
Sullivan and Orange county line; from this point they marched to Port
Jervis. On the 9th of May they crossed the Delaware at Decker's Ferry,
and from there marched to Easton.

The New Jersey brigade had spent the previous winter at Elizabethtown,
New Jersey, from which point they marched to Easton, passing through
Bound Brook.

The forces which gathered at Easton marched from there to Wyoming on the
Susquehanna, a distance of sixty-five miles. Nearly forty days were
required to cover that distance. The way lay through thick woods and
almost impassable swamps. The route took them through Hillier's Tavern,
Brinker's Mills, Wind Gap, Learn's Tavern, Dogon Point, and the Great
Swamp. They reached Wyoming on the 24th of June.

General Sullivan was much blamed but most unjustly so for his tardy
movement. Pennsylvania had been relied upon to furnish not only a
considerable body of troops but most of the supplies, but that
commonwealth did not give the expedition a hearty support. The Quakers
were most decidedly opposed to inflicting any punishment whatever upon
the Indians. Other Pennsylvanians were offended because a New Englander
had been chosen for the command instead of a Pennsylvanian. Troops were
slow in coming forward. Supplies were furnished tardily and reluctantly.
They were insufficient in quantity and poor in quality. The commissaries
were careless and inefficient. The contractors were unscrupulous and
dishonest. The authorities complained saying that Sullivan's demands
were excessive and unreasonable and they threatened to prefer charges
against him. However, all the testimony goes to show that the commissary
department was in charge of men who were either utterly incompetent or
grossly negligent of their duty. On the 23rd of June Sullivan wrote
Washington saying, "more than one-third of my soldiers have not a shirt
to their backs." On the 30th of July Colonel Hubbard wrote to President
Reed saying, "My regiment I fear will be almost totally naked before we
can possibly return. I have scarcely a coat or a blanket for every
seventh man."

On the 31st of July Sullivan's army left Wyoming for Tioga Point. A
fleet of more than two hundred boats and a train of nearly fifteen
hundred pack horses were required to transfer the army and its
equipment. Tioga Point at the junction of the Tioga and the Susquehanna
rivers was reached on the 11th of August. The army had been eleven days
in making sixty-five miles. The route from Wyoming led through
Lackawanna (now Coxton) in Luzerne county; Quialutimuck, near Ransom
Station, Luzerne county; Hunkhannock; Vanderlip's Farm (now Black
Walnut) Wyoming county; Wyalusing, Standing Stone, Bradford county;
Sheshhequin, Bradford county.

While waiting for Clinton Sullivan built a fort which was named in his
honor, between the Tioga and Susquehanna rivers about a mile and a
quarter above their junction at a point where the two streams were
within a few hundred yards of each other. The center of the present
village of Athens, Pa., is almost exactly at this point.

Early in the spring Clinton with the First and Third New York regiments
passed up the Mohawk to Canajoharie. From this point an expedition was
sent out against the Onondagas. About fifty houses were burned and
nearly thirty Indians were killed and a somewhat larger number taken
prisoners.

After this expedition Clinton passed from Canajoharie to the head of
Otsego Lake. This was a laborious enterprise as, for a portion of the
distance, roads had to be cut through an unbroken forest and there was
not a good road any part of the distance. More than two hundred heavy
batteaux had to be drawn across from Canajoharie, a distance of twenty
miles, by oxen.

Otsego Lake, the source of the Susquehanna, is about twelve hundred feet
above tide water, nine miles long with an average width of a mile. The
outlet is narrow with high banks. Here Clinton built a dam and raised
the water of the lake several feet, sufficient to furnish water to float
his boats when the time came for a forward movement.

On the 9th of August Clinton's forces embarked and the dam was cut. The
opening of the dam made very high water, flooding the flats down the
river and frightening the Indians, who thought the Great Spirit was
angry with them to cause the river to be flooded in August without a
rain.

During his passage down the Susquehanna, Clinton destroyed Albout, a
Scotch Tory settlement on the east side of the Susquehanna, about five
miles above the present village of Unadilla; Conihunto, an Indian town
about fourteen miles below Unadilla, on the west side of the river;
Unadilla, at the junction of the Unadilla with the Susquehanna;
Onoquaga, an Indian town situated on both sides of the river about
twenty miles below Unadilla; Shawhiangto, a Tuscarora village near the
present village of Windsor, in Broome county; Ingaren, a Tuscarora
hamlet where is now the village of Great Bend; Otsiningo, sometimes
called Zeringe, near the site of the present village of Chenango, on the
Chenango river, four miles north of Binghamton; Choconut, on the south
side of the Susquehanna at the site of the present village of Vestal, in
the town of Vestal, Broome County; Owegy or Owagea, on the Owego Creek
about a mile above its mouth; and Mauckatawaugum, near Barton.

On the 28th of August Clinton met a force sent out by Sullivan at a
place that has since been called Union because of this meeting. It is
about ten miles from Binghamton.

The two forces having joined, all was in readiness for a forward
movement. The expedition which at this time had its real beginning, all
the previous movements having been in the nature of organization and
preparation, was a remarkable one in that it was to pass over hundreds
of miles of territory of which no reliable map had ever been made,
through forests where no roads had ever been cut, across swamps that
were almost impassable to a single individual, with no opportunity to
communicate with the rest of the world from the time they set out on
their forward movement till their return, no chance to secure additional
supplies, no hope of reinforcements in case of disaster, no suitable
provision for the care of the sick and wounded, no chance of great
glory in case of success, no hope of being excused in case of failure.
It was a brave, daring, almost reckless movement. It was successful
beyond all expectation, yet its story is almost unknown.

                          * * * * *

_Note._--The New Hampshire troops marched from Soldier's Fortune, six
miles above Peekskill, to Fishkill, crossed the Hudson to Newburgh, then
across Orange County, N. Y., and northern New Jersey, to Easton on the
Delaware. Some New York troops who wintered at Warwarsing in Ulster
County, N. Y., passed to Easton also, going through Chester, in Orange
County, and down the Delaware River The New Jersey troops who had
wintered at Elizabethtown, marched to Easton from this point the united
forces marched to Wyoming, on the Susquehanna River. Here they were
joined by some of the Pennsylvania troops and the whole force passed up
the river to Tioga Point, where they awaited the arrival of Clinton, who
had gone up the Mohawk and after destroying some of the Onondaga towns
crossed from Canajoharie to the head of Otsego Lake and down the
Susquehanna to join Sullivan. The united forces then marched into the
Indian country, going to the foot of Seneca Lake, down its east shore,
thence to the foot of Canandaigua Lake, then to the foot of Honeoye Lake
and across the country to head of Conesus Lake, and from there to Little
Beard's Town on the Genesee. From this point the army retraced its
steps. From the foot of Seneca Lake a detachment was sent up the west
shore a few miles to the Indian town of Kershong. Another detachment
under Colonel Dearborn went up the west side of Cayuga Lake and joined
the main body at Catherine's Town, at the head of Seneca Lake. A third
detachment under Colonel William Butler went up the east side of Cayuga
Lake and joined the main army at Kanawaholla, not far from the present
city of Corning. All these movements are indicated on the accompanying
map.



[Illustration: ROUTE OF SULLIVAN'S FORCES.]




                A BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SULLIVAN'S
                     INDIAN EXPEDITION.

                          * * * * *

              By Grenville M. Ingalsbe, A. M., LL. B.

                          * * * * *

_Introductory Note_: It is with many misgivings that this paper is
submitted to the Association. When its preparation was assigned, I
assumed that previous compilations had been made, and that my labors
would be confined simply to their continuation. Upon investigation,
however, I found that while Justin Winsor in his Hand Book of the
Revolution, and in his invaluable Narrative and Critical History, and
others in various works, had enumerated many titles which, though
largely incomplete, would aid in the work, no definitive Bibliography
of Sullivan's Expedition had ever been published.

Unfortunately, when these pages shall have been printed, this condition
will still exist. I have not been able to command from the duties of
an exacting profession, the time required for the preparation of a
Bibliography at all satisfactory, even to myself. Moreover, the
attention I have been able to bestow upon it has been that of an
amateur, which in these days of highly developed scholastic
specialization, is very inadequate in results. It is presented, however,
with some confidence that it contains material which will aid some
historical specialist of the future in the preparation of a complete
Bibliography of Sullivan's Expedition.

I have made no attempt to include manuscripts, leaving that for a
supplementary monograph, or to some more competent student. The
location, however, of all known manuscripts relating to the Expedition
is given in the various volumes to which reference is made. Neither
have I included references to the general or school histories of the
United States. Sullivan's Expedition is mentioned in them as an incident
of more or less significance in the struggle for independence. In none
of them is it given the attention to which its importance entitles it.
Indeed, it is a neglected chapter of our revolutionary history. The
Public Library of Boston possesses only fourteen titles referring
directly to this great march into the Indian country, and that is a
larger number than is reported either in the New York Public Library
or in the State Library at Albany.

I desire to tender my thanks to Horace G. Wadlin, Librarian of the
Boston Library, to Victor H. Paltsits, Assistant Librarian of the New
York Public Library, and to Mary Childs Nerney and others of the History
Division of the State Library, for many courtesies which they have
extended to me.


 Adams, Warren D.:
       Sullivan's Expedition and the Cayugas.
       Cayuga County Historical Society Collections. No. 7. 23 pp.
          8 vo. Auburn. 1889.

 Adler, Simon L.:
        Sullivan's Campaign in Western New York, 1779.
        Read before the Rochester Historical Society, January 14th,
          1898. 8 pp. 8 vo. New York. 1898.

 Allen, Paul:
        A History of the American Revolution.
        2 vols. Vol. 2. pp. 276 et seq. 8 vo. Baltimore, 1822.

 Amory, Thomas Coffin:
        Life of James Sullivan with selections from his writings.
          2 vols. pp. 426 and 419. Portrait. Phillips, Sampson & Co.,
          Boston. 1859.

        The Military Services and Public Life of Major General John
          Sullivan of the American Revolutionary Army. 324 pp. Portr.
          8 vo. Wiggin & Lunt, Boston. J. Munsell, Albany, 1868.

        The Military Services of John Sullivan in the American
          Revolution, vindicated from recent historical criticism.
        Read at a meeting of the Massachusetts Historical Society,
          December, 1866. With additions and documents. 64 pp. 8 vo.
          John Wilson & Son, Cambridge. 1868.

        Centennial Memoir of Major General John Sullivan,
          1740-1795.
        Presented at Independence Hall, Philadelphia, July 2d, 1876.
          17 pp. 8 vo. Philadelphia. 1879.

        Same:
        The Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography.
          Vol. 2. pp. 196-210.

        General John Sullivan. A vindication of his Character as a
          Soldier and a Patriot. 56 pp. 8 vo. Morrisania, N. Y. 1867.

        Memory of General John Sullivan vindicated.
        Proceedings, Massachusetts Historical Society. Series I. Vol. 9.
          pp. 379-436.

        Sullivan's Expedition against the Six Nations, 1779.
          Magazine American History. Vol. 4. pp. 420-427.

        A Vindication of the Character of General Sullivan as a
          Soldier and a Patriot.
        Historical Magazine. Vol. 10. Supplement VI. pp. 161.

        Same:
        Morrisania, N. Y. 1866.

        General Sullivan's Expedition in 1779.
        Proceedings, Massachusetts Historical Society. Vol. 20.
          pp. 88-94.

 Anonymous:

        An Historical Journal of the American War.
        Collections, Massachusetts Historical Society.
          First Series. Vol. 2, pp. 175-178.

        Master Sullivan of Berwick, his Ancestors and Descendants.
        New England Historical and Genealogical Register. Vol. 19.
          pp. 289-306.

        The Old Sullivan Road.
        Pennsylvania Magazine. Vol. 11. p. 123.

        The Old Caneadea Council House and its Last Council Fire.
        Publications, Buffalo Historical Society. Vol. 6. pp. 97-123.
          8 vo. Buffalo, New York.

        Extracts from letters to a gentleman in Boston, dated at
          General Sullivan's Headquarters.
        The Remembrancer or Impartial Repository of Public Events for
          the year 1780. Vol. 9. pp. 23-24. J. Almon, London. 1780.

        The Story of Fantine Kill.
        Olde Ulster, vol. 2. pp. 106-107.

 Baker, William S.:
        Itinery of General Washington, with notes.
        Pennsylvania Magazine. Vol. 15. pp. 49-50.

 Bard, Thomas R.:
        Note to Lieutenant Parker's Journal.
        Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography. Vol. 27. p. 404.

 Barton, William (Lieutenant in General Maxwell's New Jersey Brigade):
        Journal.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 3-14.

        Same:
        New Jersey Historical Society Proceedings. Vol. 2. pp. 22-43.

 Beatty, Erkuries (Lieutenant Fourth Pennsylvania Regiment):
        Journal of an Expedition to the Indian Towns, June 11, 1779.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 18-37.

        Same:
        Cayuga County Historical Society Collections. No. 1. p. 61-68.

        Same:
        Pennsylvania Archives. Second Series. Vol. 15. Portr. pp. 219-253.

 Blake, Thomas (Lieutenant First New Hampshire Regiment):
        Journal.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 38-41.

        Same:
        History of the First New Hampshire Regiment in the War of
          the Revolution by Frederick Kidder.
        Joel Munsell. Albany, 1868.

 Bleeker, Captain Leonard:
        The Order Book of Captain Leonard Bleeker in the Early Part
          of the Expedition against the Indian Settlements of Western
          New York in the Campaign of 1779. p. 138. 4 to.
        Joseph Sabin. New York. 1865.

 Board of War:
        Letter to President Reed.
          September 9th. (Report as to progress.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7. p. 709.

 Brodhead, Daniel (Colonel Commanding Western Expedition):
        Letter to Major General Sullivan, August 6th, 1779.
        New York Centennial Volume, p. 307.

        Report of the Expedition.
        Pennsylvania Packet or the General Advertiser. Philadelphia,
          October 19, 1779.

        Same:
        Magazine of American History, Vol. 3. pp. 671-673.

        Same:
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 307-309.

 Brooks, Erastus:
        Address.
        American History and American Indian Wars.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 410-423.

 Bruce, Dwight H.:
        Onondaga Centennial. 2 Vols. Vol. I. p. 142. 4 to. Boston, 1896.

 Bryant, William Clement:
        Captain Brant and the Old King. The Tragedy of Wyoming.
        Publications, Buffalo Historical Society. Vol. 4. pp. 15-34.
          8 vo. Buffalo, New York.

 Burrowes, John (Major Fifth New Jersey Regiment):
        Journal.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 43-51.

 Campbell, Douglass:
        Address.
        The Iroquois or Six Nations and New York's Indian Policy.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 457-470.

 Campbell, William W.:
        Annals of Tryon County or the Border Warfare of New York during
          the Revolution. pp. 269. p. 121 et seq. 12 mo. J. & J. Harper,
          New York. 1831.

        The Border Warfare of New York during the Revolution, or The
          Annals of Tryon County.
        Republication of above, pp. 396. p. 149 et seq. Baker & Scribner,
          New York. 1849.

        Lecture on the Life and Military Services of General James
          Clinton.
        Read before the New York Historical Society, February, 1839.

 Campfield, Jabez (Surgeon Fifth New Jersey Regiment):
        Diary of Dr. Jabez Campfield, Surgeon in Spencer's Regiment
          while attached to Sullivan's Expedition against the Indians.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 52-61.

        Same:
        New Jersey Historical Society Proceedings. Second Series.
          Vol. III. pp. 115-136,

        Same:
        Wyoming County (Penn.) Democrat, December 31st, 1873 to January
          28th, 1874. (Five issues.)

 Chapman, Isaac A.:
        Wyoming Valley. A Sketch of its Early Annals.
        Pittston Gazette Centennial Handbook. 1878. p. 25.

 Chase, Franklin H.:
        Onondaga's Soldiers of the Revolution. 8 vo. p. 48. Syracuse.
          1895.

 Childs, A. L.:
        Poem, John Sullivan's March.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 549-552.

 Clark, John S.:
        Sketch of Lieutenant Colonel Henry Dearborn, Commanding Third
          New Hampshire Regiment, and Notes upon his Journal.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 62-78.

        Notes and Maps accompanying the Journal of Lieutenant
          John L. Hardenburgh.
        New York Centennial Volume. pp. 116-136.

        Notes upon the Journal of Thomas Grant.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 142-144.

        Same:
        Publications, Cayuga County Historical Society. No. 1. Auburn,
          1879. pp. 71-72,

        Note upon the Journal of Lieutenant Charles Nukerck.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 213-214.

        Notes upon the Journal of Sergeant Major George Grant.
        New York Centennial Volume, p. 113.

 Clinton, George:
        Papers. Sparks. MSS. No. XII. Harvard College Collections.

 Congress, Journals of American, from 1774-1788.
        4 vols. 8 vo. Vol. III. pp. 212, 241, 242, 346, 347, 351,
          375, 389, 390, 406.
        Washington, Way & Gideon. 1823.

 Cook, Frederick (Secretary of State):
        New York Centennial Volume.

 Conover, George S. (Compiler):
        Journals of the Military Expedition of Major General John
          Sullivan against the Six Nations of Indians in 1779, with
          records of Centennial Celebrations, prepared pursuant to
          Chapter 361, Laws of the State of New York, 1885. pp. 581.
          8 vo. Maps. Portraits. Auburn, New York. 1887.
        (Herein designated as New York Centennial Volume.)

        Early History of Geneva, 60 pp. p. 17 et seq. 12 mo. Geneva,
          New York. 1879.

 Craft, David:
        List of Journals, Narratives, &c., of the Western Expedition,
          1779.
        Magazine of American History. Vol. II. pp. 673-675.

        Sullivan's Centennial Historical Addresses at Elmira,
          Waterloo and Geneseo.
        Centennial Proceedings, Waterloo Library and Historical
          Society, Waterloo, 1879.

        Journals of the Sullivan Expedition, 1779.
        Pennsylvania Magazine, p. 348.

        Biographical Sketch of Major General John Sullivan.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 333-334.

        Address.
        A full and complete History of the Expedition against the
          Iroquois or Six Nations of New York in 1779, commanded by
          Major General John Sullivan, with Appendix, giving Loss of
          Men, Towns Destroyed, Washington's Instructions, and
          Biographical Sketches.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 336-386.

        Same:
        The Sullivan Campaign of 1779.
        Seneca County Sullivan's Centennial, p. 90.

        Biographical Sketch, Major Nicholas Fish.
        New York Centennial Volume, p, 383.

        Biographical Sketch, Colonel Lewis Dubois.
        New York Centennial Volume, p. 384.

        Biographical Sketch, Lieutenant Colonel Frederick Weissenfels.
        New York Centennial Volume, p. 384.

        Biographical Sketch, Rev. Samuel Kirkland.
        New York Centennial Volume, p. 385.

        Biographical Sketch, Rev. John Gano.
        New York Centennial Volume, p. 385.

        Biographical Sketch, Colonel John Harper.
        New York Centennial Volume, p. 386.

        Biographical Sketch, Brigadier General James Clinton.
        New York Centennial Volume, p. 387.

        Biographical Sketch, Colonel Peter Gansevoort.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 479-480.

        Biographical Sketch, Colonel Philip Van Cortlandt.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 537-538.

 Craig, Neville B.:

        The Olden Time.
        Vol. 2. pp. 308-317. Pittsburgh. 1848.

        Same:
        Vol. 1. p. 308 et seq. 8 vo. Robert Clark & Co., Cincinnati.
          1876.

 Dana, E. L.:
        Address.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 445-449.

 Davis, Andrew McFarland:
        Sullivan's Expedition against the Indians of New York, 1779.
          A letter to Justin Winsor. With the Journal of William
          McKendry.
          45 pp. 8 vo. John Wilson & Son, Cambridge, 1886.

        Same:
        Proceedings, Massachusetts Historical Society.
          Second Series. Vol. 2. pp. 436-478. Boston. 1886.

        List of Diaries relating to General Sullivan's Campaign.
        Proceedings, Massachusetts Historical Society. Second Series.
          Vol. 2. p. 436-438.

 Davis, Nathan (Private First New Hampshire Regiment):
        History of the Expedition against the Five Nations commanded
          by General Sullivan in 1779.
        Historical Magazine. Second Series. Vol. 3. pp. 198-205.

 Dawson, Henry B.:
        Battles of the United States.
          2 Vols, Vol. I. p. 533. 4 to. New York. 1858.

 Dearborn, Henry (Lieutenant Colonel Commanding Third New Hampshire
   Regiment):
        Journal.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 63-79.

        Same:
        Cayuga County Historical Collections. No. I. 1879.

        Same:
        Publications, Buffalo Historical Society. Vol. 7. p. 96. 8 vo.
          Buffalo, New York.

 Depeyster, J. Watts:
        Sullivan Centennial.
        New York Mail, August 26th, 1879.

        Celebrating the Anniversary of the Battle of Newtown.
        New York Mail, August 29th, 1879.

        The Sullivan Campaign.
        New York Mail, September 15th, 1879.

 Doty, Lockwood L.:
        History of Livingston County.
          Illustrated, p. 685. pp. 113 and 151 et seq. Edward E. Doty,
          Geneseo.

 Dwight, Timothy, S. T. D., LL. D.:

        Travels in New England and New York. 4 vols. Vol. 4. p. 211.
          New Haven. 1822.

 Edson, Obed:
        Brodhead's Expedition against the Indians of the Upper
          Allegheny. (Contains reference to Sullivan's Expedition.)
        Magazine American History. Vol. III. pp. 647-670.

 Elmer, Dr. Ebenezer (Surgeon Second New Jersey Regiment):
        Memoirs of an Expedition undertaken against the Savages to
          the westward commenced by the Hon. Major General John
          Sullivan, began at Easton on the Delaware (by Lieutenant
          Ebenezer Elmer).
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 80-85.

        Same:
        New Jersey Historical Society Proceedings. Vol. 2. pp. 43-50.

 Elwood, Mary Cheney:
        An Episode of the Sullivan Campaign and its Sequel.
        (The Post-Express Printing Co.) 39 pp. 8 vo. Plates. Maps.
          Rochester, New York. 1904.

 Farmer & Moore's Collections, Historical and Miscellaneous and Monthly
   Literary Journal. Vol. 2. p. 308.

 Fellows, Moses (Orderly Sergeant Captain Gray's Company Third New
   Hampshire Regiment):
        Journal.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 86-91.

 Fogg, Jeremiah (Paymaster and Captain (on roster) Second New Hampshire
   Regiment):
        Journal of Major Jeremiah Fogg of Col. Poor's Regiment,
          New Hampshire, during the Expedition of General Sullivan
          in 1779 against the Western Indians.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 92-101.

        Same:
        News Letter Press, 1879. p. 26. Exeter, New Hampshire.

 Gano, John (Brigade Chaplain General Clinton's Brigade):
        A Chaplain of the Revolution.
        Historical Magazine. First Series. Vol. 5. pp. 330-335

 Gansevoort, Peter (Colonel Third New York Regiment):
        Letter to General Sullivan.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 372-373.

 Gookin, Daniel (Ensign Second New Hampshire Regiment):
        Journal of March from North Hampton, N. Hampshire, in the
          year 1779.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 102-106.

        Same:
        New England Historical and Genealogical Register. Vol. XVI.
          pp. 27-34.

 Gould, Jay:
        Delaware County and the Border Wars of New York. pp. 426. p. 90
          et seq. 12 mo. Roxbury. 1856.

 Gordon, William, D. D.:
        The History of the Rise, Progress and Establishment of the
          Independence of the United States.
        4 Vols. Vol. 3. pp. 307-313. 8 vo. London, 1788.

 Goodwin, H. C.:
        Pioneer History of Cortland County. p. 456. p. 56 et seq. 12 mo.
          A. B. Burdick, New York. 1859.

 Grant, George (Sergeant Major Third New Jersey Regiment):
        A journey of the Marches, &c., completed by the Third Jersey
          Regiment and the rest of the Troops under the command of Major
          Sullivan in the Western Expedition.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 107-114.

        Same:
        Hazard's Register of Pennsylvania. Vol. 14. pp. 72-76.

        Same:
        Cayuga County Historical Collections. No. 1. 1879.

        Same:
        Wyoming Republican. July 16, 1834. Wilkes-Barre. 1868.

 Giant, Thomas (Surveyor):
        Journal.
        General Sullivan's Expedition to the Genesee Country--A Journal
          of General Sullivan's Army after they left Wyoming.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 137-144.

        Same:
        Historical Magazine. First Series. Vol 6. pp. 233-273.

        Same:
        Cayuga County Historical Collections. No. 1. Auburn. 1879.

        Statement of Distances.
        Historical Magazine. Vol. 6. pp. 233-273.

 Gray, Captain William:
        Letter of Captain William Gray of the Fourth Pennsylvania
          Regiment, with a map of the Sullivan Expedition (against The
          Six Nations).
        Pennsylvania Archives. Second Series. Vol. 15. pp. 286-290.

 Greene, General Nathaniel:
        Letter to Colonel Jeremiah Wadsworth.
        Pennsylvania Magazine. Vol. 22. p. 211.

 Greenough, Charles P.:
        Roster of Officers in Sullivan's Expedition, 1779.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 315-329.

 Gridley, A. D.:
        History of the Town of Kirkland, New York.
          New York. 1874.

 Griffis, William Elliot, L. H. D.:
        Address.
        The History and Mythology of Sullivan's Expedition.
        Proceedings Wyoming Commemorative Association, pp. 9-38.
          Wilkes-Barre. 1903.

        New Hampshire's Part in Sullivan's Expedition of 1779.
        New England Magazine, Vol. 23. pp. 355-373.

        The Pathfinders of the Revolution. A Story of the Great March
          into the Wilderness and Lake Region of New York in 1779.
          Illustrated, pp. 316. 12 mo. W. A. Wilde Co., Boston.

        Sullivan's Great March into the Indian Country.
        The Magazine of History. Vol. II. pp. 295-311, 365-378.
          Vol. III. pp. 1-10.

 Griffith, J. H.:
        William Maxwell of New Jersey, Brigadier General in
          the Revolution.
        New Jersey Historical Society Proceedings. Vol. 23. pp. 111-126.

 Halsey, Francis W.:
        Pennsylvania and New York in the Border Wars of the Revolution.
        Proceedings, Wyoming Commemorative Association for the year 1898.
          Wilkes-Barre. 1898.

        The Old New York Frontier.
          Illustrated, pp. 432, p. 220 et seq. 8 vo. Chas.
          Scribner's Sons, New York, 1901.

 Hamilton, John C.:
        History of the Republic of the United States of America.
          2 Vols. Vol. I. pp. 543-544. 8 vo. D. Appleton & Co.,
          New York, 1857.

 Hammond, Isaac W.:
        Rolls of the Soldiers of the Revolutionary War from New Hampshire.
        New Hampshire State Papers. Vol. 15. (War Rolls, Vol. 2.)
          Concord, N. H., 1886.

 Hand, General Edward:
        Letter to Reed. September 25th, 1779.
          (Reports return of Sullivan's command.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7. p. 715.

 Hardenburgh, John L. (Lieutenant Second New York Regiment):
        Journal.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 116-136.

        Same, with introductory notes and maps by John S. Clark and
          Biographical Sketch by Charles Hawley.
        Cayuga County Historical Society Collections. No. 1. 8 vo.
          Auburn, New York, 1879.

 Harding, Garrick M.:
        The Sullivan Road.
        Historical Record. Vol. 9. p. 101.

 Hawley, Charles:
        Address, Sullivan's Campaign.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 571-578.

        Biographical Sketch of Lieutenant John L. Hardenburgh.
        Cayuga County Historical Society Collections. No. 1. 8 vo.
          Auburn, New York, 1879.

 Hazard, Eben:
        Letter to Jeremy Belknap.
        Proceedings, Massachusetts Historical Society. Fifth Series.
          Vol. 2. pp. 23-36.
 Holmes, Abiel D. D.:
        Annals of America.
          2 Vols, Vol. 2, p. 301 et seq. Cambridge, Mass. 1829.

 Hoops, Adam (Major. Third Aide-de-Camp to General Sullivan):
        Letter to John Greig.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 310-311.

 Hubbard, John N.:
        Sketches of Border Adventures in the Life and Times of Major
          Moses Van Campen.
        Bath, New York, 1842.

 Hubley, Colonel Adam (Lieutenant Colonel commanding Eleventh
   Pennsylvania Regiment):
        Journal.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 145-167.

        Same:
        Pennsylvania Archives. Second Series. Vol. XL (Vol. 2 of
          the Revolution.) pp. 11-44.

        Same:
        Miner's History of Wyoming. Appendix, pp. 82-104.
          Philadelphia, 1845.

        Letter to President Reed.
        Pennsylvania Archives. Second Series. Vol. VII. p. 553.

        Same:
        Pennsylvania Archives. Second Series. Vol. 3. p. 319.

        Same:
        Miner's History of Wyoming. Appendix, p. 97.

        Same:
        Wyoming, July 14th, 1779.
          As to Expedition.
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7. p. 553.

        Same:
        October 1st, 1779.
          (Report of Expedition for August 30th.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7. p. 721.

        Same:
        Easton, October 18th, 1779.
          (Announcing arrival and complaining as to want of teams.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7. p. 755.

 Hubley, John:
        Letter to Reed. August 24th, 1779.
          (Report as to Expedition.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7. p. 667.

 Hunter, Colonel Samuel:
        Letter to Reed. August 4th, 1779.
          (Reports Sullivan started for Wyoming.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7. p. 620.

 Hurd, D. Hamilton:

        History of Tioga, Chemung, Tompkins and Schuyler Counties.
          pp. 687. p. 13 et seq. 4 to. Philadelphia. 1879.

 Jenkins, John (Lieutenant. Guide):
        Journal of Lieutenant John Jenkins connected with the Campaign
          of General Sullivan against the Six Nations, 1779.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 169-177.

 Jenkins, Steuben:
        Address.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 451-457.

 Jones, Thomas:
        History of New York during the Revolutionary War. 2 Vols.
          Vol. 2. pp. 332 and 613. 8 vo. New York. 1879.

 Johnson, Crisfield:
        Centennial History of Erie County, New York.
          pp. 512. p. 62 et seq. 8 vo. Buffalo, 1876.

 Keiffer, Rev. Henry M.:
        The Old Sullivan Road.
        Proceedings, Wyoming Commemorative Association for the year
          1897. Wilkes-Barre. 1898.

 Kidder, Frederick:
        History of the First New Hampshire Regiment in the War of
          the Revolution.
        Joel Munsell, Albany. 1868.

 Kirkland, Rev. Samuel (Chaplain Sullivan's Expedition):
        Life of Rev. Samuel Kirkland, by S. K. Lothrop.
        Sparks Library of American Biography. Vol. XV. p. 246 et seq.

 Livermore, Daniel (Captain Third New Hampshire Regiment):
        A Journal of the March of General Poor's Brigade from
          Soldier's Fortune on the Western Expedition, May 17th, 1779.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 178-191.

        Same:
        Collections, New Hampshire Historical Society. Vol. 6.
          pp. 308-335.

 Lossing, B. J.:
        Field Book of the American Revolution.
          Vol. I. p. 271. 8 vo. Harper & Bros., New York.

 Lothrop, S. K.:
        Life of Rev. Samuel Kirkland.
        Sparks Library of American Biography. Vol. 15. p. 246 et seq.

 Mackin, Thomas (Captain Second Regiment New York Artillery):
        Journal of March from Fort Schuyler--Expedition against
          the Onondagas, 1779.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 192-194.

        Distance of places from Eastown to Chenesee Castle, taken
          in 1779.
        New York Centennial Volume, p. 194.

 Maclay, William:
        Letter to Reed. July 26th, 1779.
          (Prospects of Northern Expedition.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7. p. 586.

        Letter to Council. July 30th, 1779.
          (As to fall of Ft. Freeland.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7. p. 597.

 Marshall, John:
        Life of Washington.
          Vol. 4. p. 105 et seq. 8 vo. Philadelphia. 1805.

 Marshall, Orasamus H.:
        The Niagara Frontier.
        Publications, Buffalo Historical Society.
          Vol. 2. pp. 395-425. 8 vo. Buffalo, New York.

        Historical Writings relating to the Early History of the West.
          500 p. pp. 455-457. 8 vo. Joel Munsell's Sons, Albany, 1887.

 Maxwell, Thompson:
        The Narrative of Major Thompson Maxwell.
        Historical Collections of Essex Institute. Vol. 7. No. 3.

 Miner, Charles:
        History of Wyoming.
          Illustrated, pp. 450. Appendix p. 104. Appendix p. 82 et seq.
          p. 97 et seq. J. Crissy, Philadelphia.

 Moore, Frank:
        Correspondence of Henry Laurens. 2 Vols.
          4 to. Vol. 1. pp. 132-141. Vol. 2. p. 216. New York. 1861.

        Diary of the American Revolution. 2 Vols.
          8 vo. Vol. 2. p. 216 et seq. Charles Scribners, New York. 1860.

 Moore, Jacob B.:
        A List of Manuscript Surveys by Robert Erskine, Geographer
          to the American Army, and Simeon DeWitt, in the Library of
          the New York Historical Society.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 291-292.

 Morgan, Lewis H.:
        League of the Ho-de-no-sau-nee or Iroquois.
          8 vo. Rochester. 1851.

 McIntosh, W. H.:
        History of Ontario County.
        276 pp. p. 9 et seq. Folio. Philadelphia.

 McKendry, William (Lieutenant and Quartermaster Sixth Massachusetts
   Regiment):
        Journal.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 198-212.

        Same:
        Edited by Andrew McFarland Davis. 45 pp. 8 vo.
          J. Wilson & Son, Cambridge. 1886.

        Same:
        Proceedings, Massachusetts Historical Society.
          Series 2. Vol. 2. pp. 442-478. Boston. 1886.

        Same:
        Historical Record. Vol. 1. pp. 37-56.

 McMaster, Guy H.:
        Poem. The Commanders: Sullivan Thay-en-da-ne-gea.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 402-409.

 McNeill, Samuel:
        Journal of Samuel McNeill, B. Q. M. "His Orderly Book," 1779.
        Pennsylvania Archives. Second Series. Vol. 15. pp. 753-759.
          Harrisburg. 1893.

 Nead, Benjamin M.:
        A Sketch of General Thomas Proctor.
        Pennsylvania Magazine. Vol. 4. p. 454.

 Nesmith, George W.:
        Services of General Sullivan.
        Granite Monthly. Vol. 1. pp. 325-330.

 New Hampshire, State of:
        Rolls of the Soldiers of the Revolutionary War from New Hampshire.
          Compiled by Isaac W. Hammond.
        New Hampshire State Papers. Vol. 15. (War Rolls Vol. 2.) Concord,
         N. H. 1886.

 New Jersey, State of:
        Official Register of the Officers and Men of New Jersey in
          the Revolutionary War. pp. 49-57. 8 vo. Trenton. 1872.

 New York, State of:
        New York Centennial Volume.
        New York in the Revolution as Colony and State. Records
          discovered, arranged and classified in 1895, 1896, 1897
          and 1898, by James A. Roberts, Comptroller, Second Edition.
          4 to. pp. 534. pp. 29-59. pp. 63-65. Portraits, Albany. 1898.

 Norris, James (Captain Third New Hampshire Regiment):
        A Journal of the West Expedition commanded by the Hon'ble
          Major General Sullivan, begun at Easton, June 18, 1879.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 223-239.

        Same:
        Publications, Buffalo Historical Society. Vol. 1. pp. 217-252.
          8 vo. Buffalo, New York. 1879.

        Same:
        Jones' History of New York. Vol. 2. p. 613.

        Same:
        Hill's New Hampshire Patriot. September 16th, 1843.
          Portsmouth, New Hampshire.

 Norton, A. Tiffany:
        History of Sullivan's Campaign against the Iroquois, Being
          a full account of that epoch of the Revolution.
          200 pp. Portraits. Map, 8 vo. A. T. Norton. Lima,
          New York. 1879.

 Nourse, Joseph:
        Letter to General Lee.
        Collections, New York Historical Society, Vol, 6, pp. 383-385.

 Nukerck, Charles (Captain Second New York Regiment):
        Journal.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 214-222.

 O'Reilly, Henry:
        Notices of Sullivan's Campaign, or the Revolutionary Warfare
          in Western New York; embodied in the Addresses and Documents
          connected with the funeral honors rendered to those who fell
          with the gallant Boyd in the Genesee Valley, including the
          remarks of Gov. Seward at Mt. Hope. Rochester. 1842.

        Sullivan's Expedition against the Six Nations as far as
          the Genesee in 1779.
        Sketches of Rochester. p. 393 et seq, 8 vo, Rochester, New York.

 Parker, General Ely S. (Do-ne-ho-geh-weh):
        Autobiography.
        Publications, Buffalo Historical Society, Vol, 8. p, 527.
          8 vo. Buffalo, New York.

 Parker, Jennie Marsh:
        A Story Historical.
          pp. 412. p. 20, p. 235, 8 vo. Rochester, 1884.

 Parker, Robert (Lieutenant):
        Journal.
        Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography. Vol. 27.
          pp. 404-420. Vol. 28. pp. 12-25.

 Peabody, Oliver W. B.:
        John Sullivan.
        Sparks Library of American Biography. Series 2. Vol. 3.

 Peck, George, LL. D.:
        Wyoming, its History, Stirring Incidents and Romantic Adventures.
          Illustrated, p. 432. 12 mo. Harper Brothers, New York. 1858.

 Peck, William F.:
        Semi-Centennial History of the City of Rochester.
          pp. 736. p. 70 et seq. and p. 134. 4 to. Syracuse. 1884.

        Landmarks of Monroe County.
          pp. 339. p. 29 et seq. 4 to. Boston, Mass. 1895.

 Pettitt, Charles Q. M. G.:
        Letter to Reed. May 21st, 1779.
          (As to impressing, &c.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol, 7. p. 433.

 Pickering, Timothy (for Board of War):
        Letter to Joseph Reed. May 19th, 1779.
          (As to stores.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7. p, 418.

 Porter, William A.:
        A Sketch of the Life of General Andrew Porter.
        Pennsylvania Magazine, Vol. 4. p. 264.

 Reed, Joseph (President State of Pennsylvania):
        Letter to Sullivan. May 21st, 1779.
          (Ans. Sullivan of 11th.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series, Vol. 7. pp. 427-430.

        Same:
        June 3d, 1779.
          (As to Pennsylvania Troops guarding stores to Wyoming.
          Ans. May 26th and 31st, 1779.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7, pp. 457-8.

        Letter to Colonel Sam. Hunter.
          (As to guarding stores by Ranging Cos.)
        Pennsylvania Archives, First Series. Vol. 7. p. 455.

        Letter to Board of War. May 20th, 1779.
          (As to Sullivan's misapprehension as to what Pennsylvania
          would do.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7. p. 424.

        Same:
          August 12th, 1779.
          (Progress of Expedition.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7, p. 640.

        Letter to Washington. July 11th, 1779.
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7. p. 555.

        Same:
          September 7th, 1779.
          (As to furnishing Sullivan with supplies.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7. p. 684.

        Letter to Council. November 13th, 1779.
        Pennsylvania Archives. Fourth Series. Vol. 3. pp. 739-740.

 Rider, Sidney S.:
        Notes to the Journal of Rev. William Rogers, D. D.
        Rhode Island Tracts. No. 7.

        Same:
        Manufacturers and Farmers Journal of Providence, R. I. 1823.

        Same:
        American Universal Magazine. Vol. 1. pp. 390-399.
          Vol. 2. pp. 86-91.

 Roberts, Ellis H.:
        Address. Sullivan's Expedition and its Fruits.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 425-438.

 Roberts, James A. (Comptroller State of New York):
        New York in the Revolution as Colony and State. Records
          discovered, arranged and classified in 1895, 1896, 1897
          and 1898.
        Second Edition. 4 to. p. 534. pp. 29-59. pp. 63-65.
          Portraits. Albany. 1898.

 Roberts, Thomas (Sergeant Capt. John Burrowes' Company Fifth
   New Jersey Regiment:)
        A Journal of the March from Eleazabeth Town to the Back Woods.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 240-245.

 Rochester:
        A Story Historical, Jennie Marsh Parker.
          pp. 412. p. 20. p. 235. 8 vo. Rochester. 1884.

 Rogers, Rev. William, D. D. (Brigade Chaplain Pennsylvania Line):
        Journal.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 246-265.

        Same:
        Rhode Island Tracts. No. 7. With an introduction and Notes
          by Sidney S. Rider.

        Same:
        Manufacturers and Farmers Journal of Providence, 1823.

        Same:
        American Universal Magazine. Vol. 1. pp. 390-399.
          Vol. 2. pp. 86-91, 200-206.

        Same:
        Pennsylvania Archives. Second Series. Vol. 15. Portr.
          pp. 255-288. Harrisburg. 1893.

 Rogers, William (Sergeant Second New York Regiment):
        Journal.
        New York Centennial Volume, p. 266.

 Ryerson, Egerton, D. D., LL. D.:
        Loyalists of America.
          2 Vols. Vol, 2. p. 108. 8 vo. Toronto and Montreal. 1880.

 Salmon, John:
        Journal.
        A Narrative of the Life of Mary Jemison, otherwise called
          the White Woman, by James E. Seaver.
          Third Edition. Batavia, New York. 1844.

 Sanborn, Frank B.:
        General John Sullivan and the Rebellion in New Hampshire.
        New England Magazine, Vol. 23, p. 323. (Contains an
          interesting study of General Sullivan's Character.)

 Schreve, John (Lieutenant Second New Jersey Regiment):
        Journal.
        Magazine of American History. Vol. 3. pp. 571-572.

 Seaver, James E.:
        Deh-he-wa-mis or A Narrative of the Life of Mary Jemison,
          otherwise called the White Woman. Third Edition.
          16 mo. Batavia, New York, 1844.

        Journal of John Salmon, In above.

        General Sullivan's Expedition to Western New York. In above.
          Appendix p. 182 et seq.

        Removal of the remains of Boyd. In above. Appendix p. 192 et seq.

 Sherman, William T.:
        Addresses.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 439-442.

 Shute, Samuel M. (Lieutenant Second New Jersey Regiment):
        Journal and Notes made contemporaneously.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 267-274.

 Simms, Jeptha R.:
        History of Schoharie County and Border Wars of New York.
          pp. 672. 8 vo. Illustrated, p. 291 et seq. Munsell & Tanner,
          Albany. 1845.

        Frontiersmen of New York (Revision of the History of Schoharie
          County and Border Wars of New York).
          2 Vols. Vol. 2. pp. 239-276. 8 vo. Albany. 1882.

 Stone, William L.:
        Life of Joseph Brant (Tha-gen-dan-e-gea), including the Border
          Wars of the American Revolution.
          Illustrated. 2 Vols. 8 vo. Albany. 1838. 1864. (Different
          editions.)

        The Poetry and History of Wyoming.
          Illustrated, pp. 324. 8 vo. Wiley & Putnam.
          New York and London. 1841.

        Same:
          pp. 406. p. 277 et seq. 12 mo. J. Munsell, Albany, 1864.

        Border Wars of the American Revolution.
          2 Vols. Vol. 1. p. 1 et seq. 16 mo. Harper Brothers,
          New York. 1846.

 Stryker, William S.:
        Official Register of the Officers and Men of New Jersey in
          the Revolutionary War.
          8 vo. pp. 49-57. Trenton. 1872.

 Sullivan, John (Major General):
        Report of the Battle of Newtown.
        The Military Services and Public Life of Major General
          John Sullivan, by Thomas C. Amory. p. 121.

        Same:
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 473-476.

        The Chronicle of his Expedition against the Iroquois in
          1779--The devastation of the Genesee Country.
        Maryland Journal and Baltimore Advertiser, October 19th, 1779.
          Baltimore, Maryland.

        Same:
        The Military Services and Public Life of Major General
          John Sullivan, by Thomas C. Amory. p. 130.

        Same:
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 296-305.

        Same:
        The Remembrancer or Impartial Repository of Public Events
          for the year 1780. Vol. 9. p. 158.

        Letter to John Langdon and some comments by George W. Nesmith.
        Granite Monthly. Vol. 3. pp. 153-161.

        Letter to Reed. Easton, May 11th, 1779.
          (Requesting order empowering Quartermasters to Impress
          Waggons, Horses, &c.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7. p. 388.

        Same:
        Easton, Pa., May 26th, 1779.
          (Ans. rec'd of 21st inst.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7. p. 439.

        Same:
        Easton, Pa., May 31st, 1779.
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7. p. 450.

        Same:
        Easton, June 7th, 1779.
          (Lamenting obstructions in Quartermaster's Department.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7., p. 473.

        Same:
        Wyoming, July 21st, 1779.
          (Complaining that Pennsylvania Rangers and Riflemen
          had not joined.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7. p. 568.

        Letter to Colonel John Cook.
          Headquarters, July 30th, 1779.
          (Answering requisition.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7. p. 593.

        Letter to Colonel Sam. Hunter.
          Wyoming, July 30th, 1779.
          (Acknowledging news of loss of Ft. Freeland.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7. p. 594.

        Letter to Reed.
          Easton, October 18th, 1779.
          (Requisition for 100 Waggons.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7. p. 756.

        Same:
          Easton, October 23d, 1779.
          (Acknowledging action of Executive Council and declining
          as too late.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7. p. 768.

        Letter to the Warriors of the Oneida Nation, &c.
        The Remembrancer or Impartial Repository of Public
          Events for the year 1780. Vol. 9. pp. 25-28.
          J. Almon. London. 1780.

        Address to Troops.
          Same. pp. 24-25.

        Letter to the Congress containing his acct. of his Expedition
          against the Indians.
          Same. pp. 158-166.

        Address to the Inhabitants of Northhampton County.
          Same. p. 166.

        Address to the Officers of the Artillery.
          Same, pp. 166-167.

        Address to the Corps of Light Infantry.
          Same. p. 167.

 Thacher, Dr.:
        Military Journal. Biographical Sketch of Major General Sullivan.
        Farmer and Moore's Collection Historical and Miscellaneous
          and Monthly Literary Journal. Vol. 2. p. 201.

 Treat, Samuel:
        Oration at interment of Lieutenant Boyd of General Sullivan's
          Army.
        History of Buffalo and the Senecas, by Ketcham. Vol. 2.
          pp. 318-340.

 Trist, Elizabeth:
        Letters to General Lee.
        Collections, New York Historical Society. Vol. 6. pp. 381-382.

 Turner, O.:
        Pioneer History of the Holland Purchase of Western New York.
          pp. 666. p. 277 et seq. 8 vo. Jewett, Thomas & Co.
          Buffalo. 1849.

        History of the Pioneer Settlement of Phelps and Gorhams
          Purchase and Morris Reserve. pp. 588. p. 80 et seq. William
          Ailing, Rochester. 1852.

 Van Campen, Moses:
        Memorial to Congress.
        Pritt's Mirror of Olden Time Border Life. pp. 697. pp. 481-491.
          Abington, Va.

        Narrative.
          Same.

 Van Cortlandt, Philip (Colonel commanding Second New York Regiment):
        Autobiography, with Notes by Pierre C. Van Wyck.
        Magazine of American History. Vol. 2. p. 278 et seq.

        Same:
        Elmira Daily Advertiser, February 17th, 1879.

 Van Hovenburgh, Rudolphus (Lieutenant Fourth New York Regiment):
        Journal.
        New York Centennial Volume. pp. 275-284.

        Table of Distances.
        New York Centennial Volume. p. 284.

 Van Wyck, Pierre C.:
        Notes to Autobiography, Philip Van Cortlandt.
        Magazine of American History, Vol. 2. p. 278.

 Washington, General George:
        Instructions to General Sullivan.
        Historical Magazine. Second Series. Vol. 2. pp. 139-141.

        Letter to John Jay, President of Congress.
        Magazine of American History. Vol. 3. p. 142.

        Letter to War Council. July 5th, 1779.
          (As to Sullivan's disappointment as to Pennsylvania's
          assistance.)
        Pennsylvania Archives. First Series. Vol. 7. p. 535.

 Webb, Nathaniel (Sergeant Major Second New York Regiment):
        Journal.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 285-287.

        Same:
        Elmira Republican, September 11th and 12th, 1855. Elmira,
          New York.

 Welles, S. R. (M. D.):
        Paper read before the Waterloo Library and Historical
          Society, November 27th, 1877.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 527-535.

 White, Pliny T.:
        Note to History of the Expedition against the Five Nations
          commanded by General Sullivan in 1779.
        Historical Magazine. Second Series. Vol. 3. p. 198.

 Wilkinson, J. B.:
        Annals of Binghamton and of the Country connected with it
          from the early settlement.
          p. 256. 12 mo. Binghamton, New York. 1840.

 Willers, Diedrich, Jr.:
        The Centennial Celebration of General Sullivan's Campaign
          against the Iroquois in 1779. Held at Waterloo, September 3d,
          1879.
          pp. 356. 8 vo. Plates. Portraits. Waterloo, New York, 1880.

 Willett, William M.:
        A Narrative of the Military Actions of Colonel Marinus Willett.
          8 vo. New York. 1831.

 Williams, Rev. Dwight:
        Poem, Sullivan's Centennial.
        New York Centennial Volume, pp. 506-510.

 Winsor, Justin:
        Narrative and Critical History of America.
          8 Vols. Houghton, Mifflin & Co., Boston. 1889. Vol. VI.
          pp. 637, 642, 653, 667, 669, 671 and 681. Vol. VIII. pp. 439.

        Handbook of the American Revolution. pp. 206-208. 12 mo. Boston.
          1880.




                  AN INDIAN CIVILIZATION AND ITS
                         DESTRUCTION.

                          * * * * *

                   By Colonel S. P. Moulthrop.

                          * * * * *


No nearer approach to what may be called civilization, if the term may
be applied to a people who left no record, other than the legendary lore
transmitted from father to son, may be found than the Iroquoian
Confederacy, whose form of government was maintained for a greater
length of time than that of any republic which had previously or has
since existed.

Their location, according to their claim, was upon the highest part of
the Continent, from whence flowed the Mohawk, Hudson, Genesee, Delaware,
Susquehanna, Ohio and the St. Lawrence rivers, going in all directions
to the sea. The intersection of lakes and streams, separated only by
short portages, the continuous valleys being divided by no mountain
barriers, offered unequaled facilities for intercommunication.

Their custom of settling on both sides of a river or encircling a lake
made the tribal boundaries well defined.

One of the most interesting features of aboriginal geography was the
location of their principal trails. If we travel either of the great
railways extending through our State, we are upon one of the leading
trails that Lewis H. Morgan stated were used in 1732. They followed the
lines of the least resistance.

The central trail, extending from east to west, intersected by cross
trails which passed along the shores of lakes or banks of the rivers,
commenced at the point where Albany now is, touched the Mohawk at
Schenectady, following the river to the carrying place at Rome, from
thence west, crossing the Onondaga Valley, along the foot of Cayuga
and Seneca Lakes, terminating at Buffalo Creek, the present site of the
city of Buffalo.

This trail was later the route taken by early settlers, because it
connected the principal villages and established a line of travel into
Canada on the west and over the Hudson on the east.

Upon the banks of the Susquehanna and its tributaries, which have their
source near the Mohawk, and the banks of the Chemung, which has its
source near the Genesee river, were other trails, all of which converged
at the junction of these two rivers, forming the southern route, into
Pennsylvania and Virginia. On these footpaths the Iroquois conducted
war parties and became well versed in the topography of the country.

Lakes, hills and streams had significant names, many of which the
Anglicized orthography and pronunciation have robbed of their euphony
and force of accent.

Mary Jemison says that "No people can live more happily than the Indians
in times of peace." Their life was one round of simple sport and
pleasure, in keeping with their free life; their simple wants were
supplied with but little exertion. Following the chase gave them
amusement and served to keep them in good physical condition, as well
as to retain their skill with weapons that were their dependence in
time of war.

The growing youth were taught Indian warfare, becoming experts with the
tomahawk and scalping knife. At such times the squaws were employed
with their simple domestic duties, or industriously tilling the soil.
Apple and peach trees were planted and cultivated about the villages.
To the Jesuit Fathers they were indebted for instruction in the art of
cultivating fruit trees, as well as many of the vegetables which they
raised in abundance; also producing a fine quality of tobacco whence
their original name, IREOKWA.

The reports of Sullivan's officers speak of cornfields exceeding in
quality and quantity anything they had been accustomed to in their
eastern homes. They wrote of ears of corn measuring twenty-two inches
in length, and grass as high as the backs of the horses on which they
rode.

Not only in war and diplomacy did the Iroquois show superiority, but
in their cultivation of crops and housebuilding some were so good as
to be called by General Sullivan elegant Indian homes. The weight of
evidence goes to show that many of them were framed, and of such a
creditable order of architecture as to surprise those who accompanied
Sullivan's expedition. Some of the officers writing home said that the
houses were large and beautifully painted. Many of those who have
considered the Indian as a forest roamer will be incredulous of the
above statement, and yet there is no people who in their primitive state
more religiously respected, or distinctly defined the family ties and
relationship. There is a bright and pleasing side to Indian character.

The ordinary picture of the Indian represents him with war club and
tomahawk. They do not deserve the appellation of savages any more than
kindred terms might be applied to their white successors.

"Bury me with my fathers" was the last plea of the red man. Not until
they had listened to the teaching of the whites did they view death with
terror, or life as anything but a blessing.

In ancient times they had a beautiful custom of freeing a captured bird
over the grave on the evening of burial, to bear away the spirit to the
happy home beyond the setting sun.

The following motto shows that hospitality was the prevailing
characteristic:

 "If a stranger wanders about your abode, welcome him to your home, be
 hospitable toward him, speak to him with kind words, and forget not
 to always mention the Great Spirit."

From a speculative point of view the institutions of the Iroquois assume
an interesting aspect. Would they naturally have emancipated the people
from their strange infatuation for a hunter life? It can not be denied
that there are some grounds for belief that their institutions would
have eventually improved into an advanced form of civilization. The
Iroquois manifested sufficient intelligence to promise a high degree
of improvement had it been directed into right pursuits, although
centuries of time might have been required to effect the change.

But these institutions have a present value irrespective of what they
might have become. Let us render tardy justice by preserving, as far
as possible, their names, deeds and customs, and their institutions.

We should not tread ignorantly upon those extinguished council fires,
whose light in the days of original occupation was visible over half
this Continent. They had planned a mighty nation and without doubt had
the coming of the Europeans been delayed but a century, the League would
have included all the tribes between the Great Lakes and the Gulf of
Mexico.

The first stage in the development of this confederacy was the union of
several tribes into one nation. They mingled by intermarriage. The Chief
ceased to be alone in his power and the government became a Pure
Democracy. Several nations, thus being formed into a confederacy or
league, more perfect, systematic and liberal than those of antiquity,
there was in it more of fixedness, more of dependence upon the people,
and more of vigor and strength.

Their original congress was composed of fifty sachems and it generally
met at the Onondaga Council House. The business of the congress was
conducted in a grave and dignified manner, the reason and judgment of
the Chiefs being appealed to, rather than their passions. It was
considered a breach of decorum for a sachem to reply to a speech on the
day of its delivery, and no question could be decided without unanimous
concurrence. The sachems served without badge of office, their sole
reward being the veneration of their people in whose interest they were
meeting.

Public opinion exercised a powerful influence among the Iroquois, the
ablest among them having a dread of an adverse criticism from the common
people.

Subordinate to the Congress of Sachems were the noted chiefs, such as
Red Jacket, Big Kettle, Corn Planter and others who influenced the
councils with their oratory.

Women were recognized by them as having rights in the government of the
nation, being represented in council by chiefs, known as their
champions. Thus they became factors in war or peace, and were granted
special rights in the concurrence or interference in the sale of lands,
claiming that the land belonged equally to the tillers of the soil, and
its defenders. The equality of rights granted women was one of the
principal factors of strength in their confederacy, or union.

Their orators studied euphony in the arrangement of their words. Their
graceful attitudes and gestures made their discourse deeply impressive.
A straight, commanding figure, with blanket thrown over the shoulder,
the naked arm raised in gesture, would, to use the words of an early
historian, "give no faint picture of Rome in her early days."

A difference existed between the Iroquois and other tribes with respect
to oratory. No others have left records of models of eloquence except
in single instances on rare occasions.

Red Jacket, Logan and Corn Planter were orators, who have by their
eloquence perpetuated their names on the pages of history.

In the happy constitution of the ruling body and the effective security
of the people from misgovernment, the confederacy stands unrivaled. The
prevailing spirit was freedom.

They were secured all the liberty necessary for the united state and
fully appreciated its value.

The red man was always free from political bondage. He was convinced
that man was born free; that no person had any right to deprive him of
that liberty. Undoubtedly the reason for this was the absence from the
Indian mind of a desire for gain--that great passion of the white
man--"His blessing and his curse in its use and abuse."

The hunter wants of the Indian, absence of property in a comparative
sense, and the infrequency of crime, dispensed with a vast amount of
legislation and machinery incident to the protection of civilized
society.

The system upon which the League was founded, as before stated, was a
singularly well chosen one, and is highly illustrative of the
intellectual character of this people. "It was wisely conceived by the
untaught statesman of the forest, who had no precedents to consult, no
written lore of ages to refer to, no failures or triumphs of systems of
human governments to use as models or comparisons, nothing to prompt
them but necessity and emergency."

President Dwight said, "Had they enjoyed the advantages possessed by
the Greeks and Romans, there is no reason to believe they would have
been at all inferior to these celebrated nations." Their minds appear
to have been equal to any effort within the reach of man. Their
conquests, if we consider their numbers and circumstances, were little
inferior to Rome itself. In their harmony, the unity of their
operations, the energy of their character, the vastness, vigor and
success of their enterprises, and the strength and sublimity of their
eloquence, they may be fairly compared to the Greeks.

Both the Greeks and Romans, before they began to rise into distinction,
had already reached the state of society in which they were able to
improve. The Iroquois had not. The Greeks and Romans had ample means
for improvement. The Iroquois had none.

The destruction of the confederacy was necessary to the well being of
the colonists. During the Revolutionary war, harassed as they were by
roving bands instigated by the tribes to massacre and burn, the Colonial
government authorized the Commander-in-Chief to administer punishment
for the horrible atrocities committed at Wyoming and Cherry Valley. To
obtain a complete, detailed account of the manner in which it was done,
one has but to read the record of Sullivan's Expedition in 1779,
compiled by the Hon. George S. Conover for the Secretary of State, 1886.

This remarkable undertaking by General Sullivan has been aptly compared
to some of the most famous expeditions in the world's history. The
boldness of its conception, the bravery of the officers and men, were
equaled on but few occasions during the great Revolutionary struggle.

The writings and researches of historians of the present day attach
greater importance to this expedition than formerly. The collection of
materials during the last centennial celebrations has resulted in
shedding much light upon the pages of Our Country's history, that was
formerly but little known.

In this respect General John S. Clark, Rev. David Craft, Lockwood L.
Doty, Hon. George S. Conover and others have performed a great service
that should receive recognition.

The colonists were particularly concerned regarding the attitude of the
Iroquois, who were considered more dangerous than three times the number
of civilized foes. The strong influence exerted by the Johnsons with
their allies, the Mohawks, was dreaded. Subsequently these fears were
proved well grounded.

When the General Council was held by the Iroquois to consider the
question of joining the British in the war against the colonies, a
division occurred--the Oneidas opposing the alliance, while the Mohawks
were anxious for an alliance with the British.

As unanimity could not be secured, each tribe was by law of the League
free to engage in the war or remain at peace with the Americans. The
sequel shows that the British agents, with presents of gunpowder and
lead, also promises of a bounty to be paid for scalps taken from the
colonists, were successful with all but the Oneidas, who remained true
to their first declaration.

To friendship alone could the colonists appeal. They were not able to
assure the Indians that the rum of the Americans was as plenty as the
water of the lake, as the British had done.

The majority of the Indians concluded that the colonists were too poor
or too mean to make them any gifts. Had the influences been less
powerful the Indians might still have remained the friend of the
settlers as he had been during long years of peace.

The indignation of Pitt in denunciation of the wrong done by the
employment of Indians has made his name immortal. How different the
policy of the American! The offers of the Oneidas were courteously yet
firmly refused. They only shared in the struggle as guides or scouts.

Wyoming in July--Cherry Valley in November, were only on a larger scale
the repetition of recurring events along the entire frontier. The
blood-curdling yell, accompanied by the tomahawk and scalping knife,
were a constant menace to the settler. The demand for decided measures
was imperative. The Wyoming massacre sent a thrill of horror through
the country, and renewed the demand for retaliatory measures.

General Washington was directed to take such measures as he deemed
advisable, for the protection of the frontiers. Realizing the country's
condition and the great need of economy in public expenditures,
Washington's policy for 1779 was to remain on the defensive, except as
might be found necessary to hold the Indians in check.

England's affairs in Europe at this time were such that she would not
be apt to push her operations in America. Washington himself was an
experienced Indian fighter--knew how they could be punished--early
favored an expedition into the heart of the Indian country--having but
little faith in the plan of establishing forts. He wished to carry the
war to their own homes, destroy villages and crops and compel them to
accept peace or depend on the British for sustenance.

The country to be traversed on such an expedition was but little known,
so Washington during the winter and spring devoted a great deal of time
to obtaining information needed and planning for the campaign, which was
subsequently shown to be the most important event of that year, and
furnished a lasting lesson to the hostile tribes of the North.

After the declination of the command by General Gates, Washington
tendered the command, which was promptly accepted by General Sullivan,
whose patriotism and bravery were well known.

Preparations were immediately commenced for the great undertaking.
Hamilton under Washington's direction, drew up a letter of instructions,
which was signed by Washington. The first paragraph is interesting:

 "May 31, 1779. Sir:--The expedition you are appointed to command is to
 be directed against the hostile tribes of the Six Nations of Indians
 with their associates and adherents. The immediate object is their
 total destruction and devastation and the capture of as many persons
 of every age and sex as possible. It will be essential to ruin their
 crops, now on the ground, and prevent their planting more."

Then followed instructions more in detail, showing that Washington had
acquired an almost accurate knowledge of the country not only, but the
people as well. His instructions were carried out almost to the letter
as far as the army proceeded.

Sullivan concluded when he had driven them from the valley of the
Genesee that his mission was fulfilled.

Sensitiveness that is unreasoning may have been shocked at Washington's
policy, carried out by Sullivan. The destruction of forty villages, some
of them extensive, as reported by Sullivan, sixty thousand bushels of
corn, three thousand bushels of beans--in one orchard fifteen hundred
peach trees--seemed harsh treatment, but when we consider that a major
portion of this would have furnished the Tories with sustenance, another
view must be taken.

Humanity, however, dictated the firing of cannon every morning, giving
the Indians an opportunity to retreat, which was in strong contrast with
the savage, cruel manner of Brant and Butler in their attacks upon
peaceful settlers.

When the Senecas returned after peace was declared, their respect for
Ha-na-de-ga-na-ars (destroyer of villages), as Washington was called by
them, was greatly strengthened.

When Horatio Jones, Major Van Campen and others moved into their
territory, they were kindly treated, and gave kind treatment in return.

The record of the Iroquois has been one of unbroken peace and friendship
since then, for their last treaty made with General Washington has been
kept inviolate.




                      SULLIVAN'S CAMPAIGN.

                          * * * * *

                        By William Wait.

                          * * * * *


In the campaign of 1779 it was evident that the British intended to
confine their operations to pillaging expeditions on the frontiers in
the north, and an effort to cripple the Union in the south.

In July of the previous year, Butler and Brant with a force of 1600
Indians and Tories had entered the Wyoming Valley and spread death and
destruction in their path, and in November raided the inhabitants of
Cherry Valley.

Two years before, St. Leger had made his unsuccessful attempt on Fort
Stanwix and the Mohawk Valley, while Burgoyne was attempting to force
his way through our northern frontier.

Nor were these raids upon the valleys of the Mohawk and the Wyoming, and
the inhabitants of Cherry Valley, the only calamities visited upon the
frontiers. By reason of the location and small size of the border
settlements and the great distance between detached dwellings, the
inhabitants, from the very beginning of the Revolutionary struggle, were
subject to constant attack by small bands of Indians, and Tories
disguised as such, who murdered those who fell into their hands and
burned and pillaged their dwellings until none but the most intrepid
dared remain in their homes. The supplicating tears of women and
children, and the wail of helpless babes, were unheeded. The tomahawk
and war-club fell without pity upon the defenceless heads of all alike,
and the scalps of women and children and the silvered locks of the aged
mingled with those of manhood to adorn the belt of the savage, and be
bartered for British gold. Here and there a heap of ashes and a few
putrefying bodies remained to show the location of some unfortunate
settler's cabin or frontier hamlet. Desolation was spread from one end
of the border to the other, and the wail of despair was not to be
resisted by the Congress. That body had received a constant stream of
appeals for aid from the sufferers at the front since the very beginning
of the war. A large part of the documentary remains of that period
consist of such letters to Washington, Governor Clinton, and others in
authority.

On the first of April, 1779, Congress, in response to a letter of March
13th, from the Legislature of New York, passed a resolution authorizing
an expedition against these marauders. The campaign was planned by the
Commander-in-chief. Its execution was first offered to General Gates
because of his seniority, but the offer was made in such a way that it
could not be accepted, and Gates was obliged to decline in favor of
Major-General John Sullivan, whom Washington intended from the first
should be its commander.

General Washington's orders to Sullivan for the conduct of the campaign
were very explicit, and were in part as follows:

 "The immediate objects are the total destruction and devastation of
 their settlements, and the capture of as many prisoners of every age
 and sex as possible. It will be essential to ruin their crops now in
 the ground and prevent their planting more . . . parties should be
 detached to lay waste all the settlements around, with instructions to
 do it in the most effectual manner, that the country may not be merely
 overrun, but destroyed. Make rather than receive attacks, attend with
 as much impetuosity, shouting, and noise, as possible; and make the
 troops act in as loose and dispersed a way as is consistent with a
 proper degree of government, concert, and mutual support. It should be
 previously impressed upon the minds of the men, whenever they have an
 opportunity, to rush on with the war-whoop and fixed bayonet. Nothing
 will disconcert and terrify the Indians more than this."

The forces were gathered in three divisions; the principal and central
one, rendezvousing at Wyoming, was composed of the three brigades of
Maxwell, Poor, and Hand, and proceeded up the valley of the Susquehanna
to Tioga, where it was joined by the right division under Gen. James
Clinton, whose force, consisting of 1,600 men, was gathered at
Canajoharie, and proceeded down the headwaters of the Susquehanna. The
left division, consisting of 600 men, under Col. Daniel Brodhead,
marched up the Allegheny from Pittsburgh, leaving that place the 11th of
August, burned 11 towns, containing about 165 houses, which were for the
most part constructed of logs and framed timber; destroyed more than 500
acres of cultivated land then in full crop, and took loot estimated as
worth $30,000. This division returned to Pittsburgh the 14th of
September, having been too late to join the main body, and never having
come under the direct command of Gen. Sullivan.

The main division began to assemble at Wyoming early in April, but it
was not until the last day of July, in the afternoon, that they finally
began their advance. The artillery, ammunition and provisions were
loaded on 214 boats (this is the number stated by Col. Proctor, who was
in charge of the fleet; most accounts say 120), while 1,200 pack horses
carried the baggage and camp utensils, and 700 beef cattle were driven
along for food. Gordon, and some other British writers, have claimed
that Sullivan demanded much more than he should in the way of supplies.
Some of Sullivan's enemies at home made the same charge; but it is a
notorious fact that the commander had great difficulty in procuring the
amount that he had and that it fell far short of what prudence required.
As it was, some of the pork was packed in barrels made of green staves,
and spoiled. Much of the time the army subsisted on short rations, eked
out by green corn and other supplies taken from the fields of the
Indians which they were destroying.

Tioga was the Iroquois name for the point of land lying between the
Chemung River and the north branch of the Susquehanna. Every name that
an Indian gave to a place or a person was descriptive, and had a
meaning. Most of these as we find them written are corruptions of the
names as they sounded when spoken by an Indian, and therefore we find
the same word in different documents spelled in as many ways as it could
be spelled by illiterate English, Dutch and French settlers, with a few
extra letters thrown in. Tioga is said to mean anything between any
other two things, a gate, the forks of a river, etc. (from Teyaogen, or
Teiohogen). Van Curler in his Journal of 1634 speaks of the Mohawk's
name of their great river as Vyoge. Father Jogues gave Oiogue as the
Mohawk name for the Hudson, in 1646. Ohio is another corrupted form of
the same word, and all seem to be corrupted from the same Iroquois word,
meaning a large stream. Many other Indian place-names occur in the
various journals of the officers engaged in this expedition, and it
would be interesting to take them up and consider their meaning if it
were possible. But in the above case it seems fair to suppose that
Indians coming down the trail from the Chemung Valley should speak of
this spot as Vyoge, or Oiogue, the great or principal river, as
distinguished from the smaller branch above.

However that may be, the time between the 31st of July and the 11th of
August was consumed by the main body of the army in reaching this spot,
selected as the meeting place of the divisions.

On their march for this place after leaving Wyoming, the first night
they encamped at a place called by the Delaware Indians,
_Lechau-Hanneck,_ or Lackawanna, also said to mean the forks of a
stream, and by the Iroquois called Hazirok, with something of the same
meaning. The following night they encamped at a place the Indians called
Quailutimack, meaning, "We came upon them unawares." On the 4th, it is
related, they crossed a small creek, called where it joins the
Susquehanna, _Massasppi_ (missisipu), great river, this being a Delaware
word meaning about the same as the Iroquois Oiogue.

On the 5th the detachment lost three of its men, one soldier dying of
the so called "falling sickness," one of Proctor's artillerymen being
drowned, and Sergt. Martin Johnson dying from heat. Dr. Elmer informs
us in his journal that Johnson was a hard drinker and "his vitals were
decayed by spirituous liquors." On the 8th, Col. Proctor destroyed the
first of the Indian settlements, a place called Newtychanning,
consisting of about twenty houses.

The army arrived at Tioga on the 13th. Here they remained until the
25th, awaiting the arrival of General Clinton's detachment. In the
meantime Fort Sullivan was erected, and a detachment sent up the Chemung
River to destroy an Indian town of the same name, consisting of about
fifty houses, with more than 100 acres of cultivated fields of grain and
other Indian produce. Some of the troops under General Hand, as they
pursued the Indians who were fleeing from the village, fell into an
ambush, whereby six were killed and nine wounded, with slight loss to
the enemy. While destroying the crops, one other man was killed and
three more wounded by some of the enemy who were concealed across the
river. The houses here destroyed were built of split and hewed timber,
covered with bark, and in the center of the town were two large
buildings, presumably council houses. None of the buildings had chimneys
or floors. While herding the stock in the camp at Tioga, the Indians
succeeded in killing and scalping several of the pack-horse men and
wounding some others.

Meantime a detachment under Generals Hand and Poor were sent up the
Susquehanna to meet General Clinton.

Gen. Sullivan had written Clinton from Wyoming on July 30th, "I wish you
to set out on the 9th of next month (marching moderately), as some
allowance is to be made for bad weather, which will probably detain us
some time. On my arrival at Tioga, I will immediately detach a
considerable body of light troops to favor and secure your march."

Previous to this date Clinton had gathered his forces at Canajoharie and
transported them to the shore of Otsego Lake, the level of which he had
raised about two feet by erecting a dam, for the purpose of causing a
flood which would float his expedition in boats over the shallows of the
Susquehanna head-waters.

Breaking the dam, he left Otsego Lake, according to Sullivan's
instructions, on the 9th of August, and proceeding down the river with
little difficulty, destroyed such Indian dwellings and crops as came in
his path.

Lieut.-Colonel Pawling, with a detachment, was marching from Kingston
_via_ Shandakin, under orders to join Clinton on August 16th. at
Annaquaga, which, before it was destroyed by Col. William Butler, in
the fall of 1778, was quite a large Indian settlement, occupying an
island and both sides of the river, where the little village of Onaquaga
now stands. Clinton arrived at this place on the 15th, and remained
there until the 17th, awaiting the arrival of Pawling. In the center of
the island he found the cellars and wells of about sixty houses, also
fine orchards. Most of these buildings had been log houses, with stone
chimneys and glass windows.

Pawling did not arrive, but returned to Kingston on September 1st and
reported his inability to join Clinton, owing to the swollen streams
and bad roads. Proceeding on their way, the Right Division passed
several Tuscarora villages, which they destroyed, with the crops.
Arriving at the mouth of the Chenango Creek, a small detachment was sent
four miles up that stream to destroy the village of Chenango, consisting
of about twenty houses.

On the 19th they joined the detachment of General Poor, burning the
villages of Chukkanut and Owagea, and three days later arrived at the
encampment of the main division at Tioga. On the 23d of August, by the
accidental discharge of a musket, Captain Kimball was killed and a
Lieutenant wounded.

Leaving a garrison to defend Fort Sullivan, at Tioga, the whole army
proceeded, on the 26th, taking the route up the Tioga branch of the
Susquehanna. About sixteen miles up this stream was a village called
Newtown, which they reached on the 29th. Here the light troops, which
were marching ahead, discovered a breastworks, artfully masked by green
bushes, extending for about half a mile, in an advantageous place,
protected by a high mountain on one side, the river on the other, and a
large creek in front, behind which the enemy were entrenched. Here
occurred the most important fight of the campaign. The design of the
enemy appears to have been primarily, an ambuscade. His force of British
regulars, consisting of two battalions of Royal Greens and Tories, was
led by Col. John Butler, with Captains Walter Butler and Macdonald as
subordinates. The Indian forces were commanded by the great Mohawk
chief, Joseph Brant. All the cunning of the Indians, combined with the
trained tactics of the British regulars, were here exerted to check the
advance of Sullivan's invading army. Had the Americans not discovered
the trap in time to avoid it, the story of this campaign would have
ended here in a tale of butchery hardly equaled in the annals of war.
But three companies of Morgan's riflemen, the pride of Washington, were
in advance; veterans of a hundred battles, and in no way inferior to the
enemy in Indian craft; and the ingenious device for drawing our forces
into an ambush was thwarted. For hours the battle waged fiercely. By
skillfully maneuvering his troops Sullivan had nearly succeeded in
surrounding the enemy, when, admirably commanded, and wisely discreet,
the signal for retreat was sounded just in time to escape. The entire
loss to the Americans was three killed and thirty-nine wounded. Twelve
Indians were found dead on the field, but the number of their wounded
is unknown.

The events of the succeeding days during which the expedition was
prosecuting its errand of destruction, were a constant repetition of
each other. The army was almost constantly on the move, searching out
and destroying such settlements as could be found. The Indians skulked
away like a pack of wolves at the approach of the hunter, turning now
and then to snap at their pursuers, and then vanishing. Where once had
stood their pleasant villages surrounded by fruitful fields, was only
left heaps of smouldering ashes and masses of trampled grain and
prostrate fruit trees. They needed no spies to keep them informed of the
progress of the invaders. A trail of smoke by day and a ruddy glow on
the sky at night told it too plainly. The scourge had fallen. Not only
were the frontiers cleared but the doom of the Iroquoian Confederacy was
sealed, and its dominion over the vast territory which it had so long
ruled was destroyed forever. From the mountains of northern
Pennsylvania, through the beautiful valley of the Susquehanna and the
lake region of central New York to the fruitful valley of the Genesee,
no Indian settlement of importance was left. Said Sullivan in his
official report: "The number of towns destroyed by this army amounted
to 40, beside scattering houses. The quantity of corn destroyed, at a
moderate computation, must amount to 160,000 bushels, with a vast
quantity of vegetables of every kind. Every creek and river has been
traced, and the whole country explored in search of Indian settlements,
and I am well persuaded that, except one town situated near the
Allegheny, about 50 miles from Genesee, there is not a single town left
in the country of the Five Nations.

 "It is with pleasure I inform Congress that this army has not suffered
 the loss of forty men, in action or otherwise, since my taking the
 command, though perhaps few troops have experienced a more fatiguing
 campaign. I flatter myself that the orders with which I was entrusted
 are fully executed, as we have not left a single settlement or field
 of corn in the country of the Five Nations, nor is there even the
 appearance of an Indian on this side of Niagara."




            CONTINUATION OF NATHANIEL WEBB'S JOURNAL

                          * * * * *

             As Published in the Elmira Republican
                  of Sept. 11th and 12th, 1855.

                          * * * * *

Note--In the volume containing the "Journals of the Military
Expedition of Major General John Sullivan against the Six Nations of
Indians in 1779," prepared by Frederick Cook, Secretary of State, and
published by the State in 1887, on page 285 et seq, is published part
of the Journal of Nathaniel Webb, and a note says that a portion of the
Journal cannot be found.

In a scrap-book originally kept by Thos. Maxwell, Esq., which was
recently bought in an old book shop in New York, I find the missing
Journal, and give herewith the portion supposed to be lost.

                                            WILLIAM WAIT.

_Note_--In Col. Gansevoort's Journal of the same expedition, the entry
is as follows:

"31st.--Decamped at 8 o'clock,--marched over mountainous ground until
we arrived at the forks of Newtown--there entered on a low bottom,
(Tuttle's flats), crossed the Kayuga branch, (Newtown creek), and
encamped on a pine plain. Much good land about Newtown. Here we left
the Tioga branch to our left."

September 1.--The army moved at 8 A. M. Several defiles and a large
swamp occasioned our Brigade to encamp about three miles in the rear of
the army. The army encamped that night at Catharine's town. The enemy
had all fled from this town the night before and left an old squaw.

2.--Our brigade joined the army at Catharine's town. Lay the remaining
part of the day for refreshment, &c.

3.--We destroyed some five fields of corn and decamped at 8 A. M.
Marched this day about 11 miles. Encamped that night near the banks of
the Seneca Lake. Marched this day through a remarkable country for
timber.

4.--Decamped at 9 A. M. Burnt a small town on this day's march. Encamped
at 7 P. M. The country still remains well timbered.

5.--Decamped at 10 A. M. Marched this day about six miles. Encamped that
night at Conoyah, a beautiful town situated between the Seneca and
Kengah lakes--distance between those lakes 8 miles. (Gansevoort writes
it Kandaiah.)

6.--Lay in encampment. This town is beautifully situated in several
respects--a fine level country--some fine fields of corn, a fine apple
orchard, about twenty houses--situated about twenty miles from Seneca
lake. One white man deserted from the enemy that had been taken prisoner
last summer from Wyoming. Several horses were captured at this town.
Decamped at 4 P. M., moved about 4 miles. Encamped in a beautiful piece
of woods near the Lake. Col. Gansevoort, of our Brigade, was sent to
destroy Kengah town joining Kengah lake, where they burnt several
houses, got about twenty horses, &c.

7.--Decamped. Marched to Kanadesago, a town situated about three miles
from the west end of the lake, the capital of the Senecas. (This was
what is called the old Castle near Geneva.) Crossing the Seneca creek
(or outlet) and several large defiles occasioned our not arriving in
town till some time in the evening. This town consists of about 60
houses. Several large fields of corn. We found a white male child the
enemy had left behind.

8.--The army was employed in destroying corn, beans, fruit trees, &c.
A detachment sent to destroy a town about 12 miles from this town.
(This was Cashong, Kashonguash, on the west side of the Seneca.)

9.--All the sick and lame sent to Tioga. At 11 A. M. we marched,
following the road that leads to Niagara. Marched about 13 miles.
Encamped near a brook that night.

10.--Decamped at 6 A. M. Marched this day about 13 miles--part of the
day through a swampy country, abounding chiefly in beech and maple, some
remarkably large white ash trees--latter part of the day through a
grassy country. Passed the end of Connandockque lake. Encamped near
some fine fields of corn. This town contains about 20 houses.

11.--Decamped at 4 A. M., after destroying the town and vegetables, &c.
Marched this day to Hannayouya (Honeoye). This town is situated at the
end of a small Lake of the same name--contains about 15 houses--a large
flat of excellent land.

12.--The provisions and superfluous baggage of the army were left at
this town, with a guard of about 200 men and two field pieces. The army
decamped at 11 A. M. and marched towards the Genesee flats. Marched
about 10 miles and encamped in the woods--passed this day a small lake
called Konyoughojoh.

13.--Decamped at 6 A. M. Marched about two miles and halted at Adjustah.
This town contains about 26 houses. While we halted at this town,
Lieut. Boyd, with 20 men of the Rifle Corps, was sent to the next town
to reconnoiter the enemy. On his return about 700 of the enemy ambushed
him, killed and took 18 of the party. After the corn, &c., was destroyed
and the town set in flames, we moved off to the next town. Our brigade
marched some miles around to gain the rear of the enemy, but as usual
they had fled before us. This town contains about 18 houses, situated
at the southern end of the Genesee flats, on the banks of a small river
that leads into the Genesee river.

14.--9 A. M. the army decamped, passed the river, entered the Genesee
flats. This flat is judged to contain near 6,000 acres. We passed the
Genesee river. This river runs with a strong current out of a hilly
country. Three miles below where we forded, is navigable to lake
Ontario. We burnt a small town on the bank of the river and marched
that night to Genesee castle. There the body of Lieut. Boyd and one man
was found murdered in a barbarous manner, too horrid to mention. This
town is the metropolis of that nation; contains about 140 houses. Some
fine buildings in it; situated about 40 miles from Niagara, on the
south side of the Genesee river. The soil is exceedingly rich for 10
or 12 miles along the river. In and about this town, it was judged
there were 800 acres of corn, beans, and vegetables of every kind.

15.--The whole army was employed in destroying the corn, &c. Now the
general having completed and fulfilled his orders, after destroying the
corn and setting the town in flames, the army passed the river and
encamped upon the flats. One woman and one child made their escape from
the savages and came to us that evening.

16.--Lay by to destroy corn along the flats. Decamped at 10 A. M.
Encamped at Aojuhtah.

17.--Decamped at gun firing. Encamped at Honeoye.

18.-Decamped at 10 A. M. that day to Canandaigua. Encamped on the east
side of the Lake.

19.--Marched to Connadasago.

20.--A party of 900 men was detached under command of Col. Butler, to
destroy the Kengah tribe, and a party of 100 men under command of Col.
Gansevoort to destroy part of the Mohawk tribe. Decamped at 3 P. M.
and encamped on the east side of Seneca Lake.

21.--A party of 100 men was detached under Col. Dearborn to destroy the
towns on the west side of Kenkah lake. Decamped at 8 A. M., passed
Candiah about three miles and encamped at 4 P. M.

22.--Decamped at 7 A. M. Encamped that night within seven miles of
Catharine town.

24.--(23d.?) Decamped at 7 A. M., passed Catharine town and encamped
near the Big Swamp that night.

24.--Decamped at 5 A. M., passed the swamp and halted some time for
refreshment. Encamped that night at Fort Reed, where we met provisions
and stores for the reception of the Army. Upon our arrival at this
place, (now Elmira), 13 cannon were discharged from the fort and was
returned from one of our pieces 15 times. The latter was discharged in
the space of one minute and a half. Dried provisions, &c.

(Colonel Gansevoort's Journal notes the proceedings of this day as
follows: "Passed the swamp so much dreaded from its badness, without
any difficulty and arrived at the forks of Newtown, where Capt. Reed
with a detachment of 200 men had thrown up a breastwork to guard some
stores and cattle brought forward from Tioga for the army in case of
necessity. Saluted by 13 rounds of cannon from the breast-work, which
number we returned from our artillery.")

Fort Reed was on the west side of the Newtown creek and on the north
bank of the Tioga, where the creek falls into the river. It was a
breast-work and was surrounded by palisades including some three or
four acres. The western line of palisades can be traced on the west side
of the junction canal and on the east side of Water st., a little south
of the Fair grounds. The Journal continues.

25.--All the loaded muskets in the army were discharged at 5 A. M. The
army was drawn up in one line and fired three rounds per man. After the
discharge of 13 cannon, for our new ally the King of Spain, several
oxen were killed for the officers and men.

(Col. Gansevoort's Journal thus describes this affair: "25.--This
morning the small arms of the whole army were discharged at 5 o'clock.
The whole were drawn up in one line, with a field piece on the right
of each brigade, to fire a _feu de joie_--1st. thirteen rounds of
cannon; 2d. a running fire of musketry, from right to left--repeated
twice. Fifty oxen were killed on this joyous occasion, one delivered
to each Brigade and one to the Artillery and staff. This was done in
consequence of Spain having declared war against Britain.")

26.--At 12 A. M., the party under command of Col. Dearborn came in
after destroying a fine country on the west side of the Kengah Lake.
They brought in two squaws with them.

27.--400 men under the command of Col. Courtland, was employed in
destroying corn up the river. 30 boats arrived from Tioga.

28.--All the sick were sent to Tioga. The party under the command of
Col. Butler, returned from destroying the Kengah tribe. They found a
most beautiful country abounding in vast quantities of corn and
vegetables of all kinds; the same party under command of Col. Courtland,
was employed up the river; also, 500 men were employed down the river,
towards Tioga, destroying corn and vegetables on the flats.

29.--Decamped 6 A. M. Encamped that night 3 miles below Chemung and
within 3 miles of Tioga.

30.--Decamped at 6 A. M., arrived at Fort Sullivan at 1 P. M. Upon our
arrival the garrison discharged 13 cannon and we returned the same.
Pitched tents on the ground we occupied before.

October 3.--A party of 500 men turned out to load the boats and demolish
Fort Sullivan. The army drew 6 days' flour to carry them to Wyoming.

4.--Decamped at 6 A. M. Passed the river and encamped that night within
5 miles of Standing Stone, near the river.

5.--All the cattle, stores and horses were sent down to Wyoming. The
whole went on board the boats. The fleet got under way at 6 A. M.

6.--The fleet got under way at 9 A. M. Arrived at evening at Shawney
Flats.

7.--The whole fleet got under way at 9 A. M., and arrived at Wyoming at
2 P. M. When it hove in sight 13 cannon were fired by the garrison and
returned by the fleet. The army encamped near the garrison.

8.--Two hundred men were detached to repair the road from this post to
Easton and to remain there until the army arrives.

10.--Gen. Sullivan set out for Easton, leaving the command to Gen.
Clinton. Decamped at 11 A. M. Encamped that night at Bullock's tavern.

11.--The rear of the army came up to camp at 9 A. M. Marched this day
and encamped between the Shades of Death and the Big Swamp.

12.--Decamped at 7 A. M. Encamped that night at the White Oak Run.

13.--Decamped at 8 o'clock in the morning. The army moved that day to
Brink's Mills.

14.--Decamped at 10 A. M. Passed the Wind Gap and encamped that night
within 12 miles of Easton.

15.--Decamped at 6 o'clock in the morning and arrived at Easton at
2 P. M. Encamped in the Forks of the Delaware on the bank of the Lehigh.

17.--Our Brigade mustered. The Rev. Parson Evans delivered a discourse
to the army in the German church.

In the same volume is given a table of distances as traveled by the
army from Easton to Genesee Castle, as surveyed by Mr. Lodge, Surveyor
to the Western army:

From Easton to Wyoming                          65   miles
       "       Lackawanna                       75     "
       "       Quelutinack                      82     "
       "       Tunkhannock Creek                93     "
       "       Mesupin                         102     "
       "       Vanderlip's Farm                107     "
       "       Wyalusing                       115     "
       "       Wysaching Creek                 129-1/2 "
       "       Tioga                           145     "
       "       Chemung                         157     "
       "       Forks at Newtown                165     "
       "       French Catharines, or Evoquagah 183-1/2 "
       "       Condiah, or Appleton            211     "
       "       Outlet of Seneca Lake           222-1/2 "
       "       Canadesaco, or Seneca Lake      226     "
       "       Canandaigua                     241-1/2 "
       "       Honeoye                         255     "
       "       Adjustah                        267-1/2 "
       "       Gasagularah                     274-1/2 "
       "       Genesee Castle                  280     "




                     CONCERNING THE MOHAWKS.

                          * * * * *

                        By W. Max Reid.

                          * * * * *


I am somewhat at a loss to select a name for the subject of this paper.
I dare not dignify it by the title of a history of the Mohawks, because
a true history of that notable people never has been or never can be
written. It is true that "Colden's Five Nations," "Morgan's League of
the Iroquois," and Schoolcraft's notes are looked upon as authority on
this subject, but Morgan's work is in a great measure legendary and
altogether unsatisfying, and the same may be said of Colden and
Schoolcraft, although the little that Colden has to say about the
Mohawks is accepted as authority as far as it goes.

As to the origin of the Mohawks, it will always remain a mystery.
Conjecture may or may not approach the truth, but from the fact that
they had no written language, no records on stone or parchment from
which we can obtain knowledge of their origin or early history, it is
evident that our only sources of information are the vague traditions
that have been transmitted orally from parent to child or from Sachem
to Sachem.

How unreliable and unsatisfactory these oral traditions are, may be
noted in what is called the "Iroquoian Cosmology," or the "Creation,"
as translated by J. N. B. Hewitt, of the Bureau of Ethnology. Mr. Hewitt
gives three versions of the "Creation," the Onondaga, Mohawk and the
Seneca. They are practically alike, differing only in minor statements.
The Onondaga is the longest and the Seneca the shortest version. I will
give you, however, a condensed rendering of the Mohawk tradition. It
says:

 "In the sky above were man-beings, both male and female, who dwelt in
 villages, and in one of the lodges was a man and woman, who were
 down-fended, that is, they were secluded, and their lodge was
 surrounded by the down of the cat-tail, which was a sign that no one
 should approach them, nor were they allowed to leave this precinct.
 The man became ill and stated that he would not get well until a
 dogwood tree standing in his dooryard had been uprooted. So when his
 people had uprooted the tree he said to his wife, 'Do thou spread for
 me something there beside the place where stood the tree.' Thereupon
 she spread something for him there and he then lay down on what she
 had spread for him, and he said to his wife: 'Here sit thou, beside my
 body.' Now at that time she did sit beside him as he lay there. Then
 he said to her: 'Do thou hang thy legs down into the abyss.' For where
 they had uprooted the tree there came to be a deep hole, which went
 through the sky, and the earth was upturned about it.

 "And while he lay there he recovered from his illness and turning on
 his side he looked into the hole. After a while he said to his wife:
 'Do thou look thither into the hole to see what things are occurring
 there in yonder place.' And as she bent her body to look into the hole
 he took her by the nape of the neck and pushed her and she fell into
 the hole and kept falling into the darkness thereof. After a while she
 passed through and as she looked about her, as she slowly fell, she
 saw that all about her was blue in color and soon discovered that what
 she observed was a vast expanse of water, on which floated all kinds
 of water fowls in great numbers.

 "Thereupon. Loon, looking into the water and seeing her reflection,
 shouted, 'A man-being, a female is coming up from the depths of the
 waters.' The Bittern, answering, said, 'She is not indeed coming up
 out of the depths of the water, she is falling from above.' Thereupon
 they held a council to decide what they should do to provide for her
 welfare.

 "They finally invited Great Turtle to come. Loon, thereupon, said to
 him, 'Thou should float thy body above the place where thou art in the
 depths of the water.' And then as Great Turtle arose to the surface,
 a large body of ducks of various kinds arose from the face of the
 water, elevated themselves in a very compact body, and went up to meet
 her. And on their backs did she alight, and they slowly descended,
 bearing her body on their backs, and on the back of Great Turtle they
 placed her.

 "Then Loon said, 'Come, you deep divers, dive and bring up earth.'
 Many dived into the water, and Beaver was a long time gone. When his
 back appeared he was dead, and when they examined his paws, they found
 no earth. Then Otter said, 'It is my turn.' Whereupon he dived, and
 after a longer time he also came up dead. Neither did he bring up any
 earth. It was then that Muskrat said, 'I also will make the desperate
 attempt.' It was a still longer time that he was under water, but
 after a while he also floated to the surface, dead. In his paws was
 mud and his mouth was full of mud. And they took this mud and coated
 the edge of Great Turtle's shell all around, and other muskrats dived
 and floated dead, but brought up mud, which was placed on Great
 Turtle's back. And the female man-being sat on the back of Great
 Turtle and slept. And when she awoke the earth had increased in size,
 and she slept again, and when she awoke, willows were growing along
 the edge of the water. And then, also, when she again awoke, the
 carcass of a deer recently killed, lay there, and a fire was burning,
 and a sharp stone. And she dressed, cooked, and ate her fill. And
 after a while a rivulet appeared and rapidly the earth increased to
 great size, and grass and herbs sprung from the earth and grew to
 maturity.

 "And after a while the female man-being gave birth to a girl child,
 who grew rapidly to maturity, and not long after gave birth to two
 male man-beings, but the daughter died in giving birth to the twins.
 And the grandmother cut off the head of her dead daughter and hung her
 body in a high place and it became the sun, and the head she placed in
 another place and it became the moon.

 "And when she examined one of the infants she found his flesh was
 nothing but flint and there was a sharp comb of flint over the top of
 his head, but the flesh of the other was in every respect like a
 man-being.

 "It seems that these two were antagonistic from their birth, the
 grandmother clinging to the flint child and driving the other into the
 wilderness; and in his wanderings he came to the shore of a lake and
 saw a lodge standing there. Looking in the doorway he saw a man
 sitting there, who said to him, 'Enter thou here. This man was Great
 Turtle, who gave him a bow and arrow, and also gave him two ears of
 corn, one in the milky state, which he told him to roast and eat as
 food, and the other, which was mature, he should use for seed corn.

 "He also endowed him with preternatural powers. And when he was about
 to depart, he said to the young man, 'I am Great Turtle, I am thy
 parent.'

 "Sapling, which was the name of the young man-being, created animals
 out of earth, and birds by casting handfuls of earth into the air. He
 also formed the body of a man and the body of a woman, and gave them
 life and placed them together. Returning shortly after he found them
 sleeping. Again and again he returned and still they slept. 'Thereupon
 he took a rib from each and substituted the one for the other and
 replaced each one in the other's body. It was not long before the
 woman awoke and sat up. At once she touched the breast of the man
 lying at her side, just where Sapling had placed her rib, and, of
 course, that tickled him. Thereupon he awoke. Awoke to life and
 understanding.'"

As in the Biblical story of Cain and Abel, the two brothers fought and
in the end one was slain. But is was the unrighteous one, the one with
the flint body, who lost his life.

Nearly three hundred years ago, the Jesuits recorded traditions of the
Algonquins and Huron-Iroquois of Canada, which were practically the same
in their main features as the above. (See Jesuit Rel. vol. 10, pages
127-129.)

The Montagnais and Adirondacks of Canada, and in fact all the Algonquin
nations, seem to have some tradition of the deluge, which in some way
is mixed with the Huron-Iroquois tradition of the creation. In fact,
it deals with a re-creation of the earth.

They say that one Messou restored the world when it was lost in the
waters. Their story of the deluge is practically as follows:

 This Messou went a hunting with lynxes, instead of dogs, and was
 warned that it would be dangerous for his lynxes in a certain lake
 near the place where he was. One day as he was hunting an elk his
 lynxes gave it chase even into the lake; and when they reached the
 middle of it, they were submerged in an instant. When Messou arrived
 there and sought his lynxes, who were indeed his brothers, a bird told
 him that it had seen them in the bottom of the lake, and that certain
 animals or monsters held them there. He at once leaped into the water
 to rescue them, but immediately the lake overflowed, and increased so
 prodigiously that it inundated and drowned the whole earth. Astonished,
 he gave up all thought of his lynxes and turned his attention to
 creating the world anew. First he sent a raven to find a small piece
 of earth with which to build a new world. The raven returned
 unsuccessful. He made an Otter dive down, but he could not reach the
 bottom. At last a muskrat descended and brought back some earth. With
 this bit of earth Messou restored every thing to its former condition.

But it is among the Iroquois that Great Turtle plays the principal part
in the creation. In fact it is said that he upholds the earth to this
day. In one of the cases of the "Richmond collection" in the museum of
the Montgomery County Historical Society, is an old rattle which can be
traced back more than a hundred years. We have looked upon it as an
interesting relic of the Senecas, a rude musical instrument. It is made
from a turtle shell and skin, and in the enclosed space has been placed
pebbles for rattles.

But this instrument is interesting beyond all that. Father LeJune, in
his Relation of 1639, makes the following statement in describing a
dance at a feast given for a sick woman: "At the head of the procession
marched two masters of ceremonies, singing and holding the tortoise, on
which they did not cease to play. This tortoise is not a real tortoise,
but only the shell and skin, so arranged as to make a sort of drum or
rattle. Having thrown certain pebbles into it they make from it an
instrument like that the children in France used to play with. There
is a mysterious something, I know not what, in this semblance of a
tortoise, to Which these people attribute their origin. We shall know
in time what there is to it."

It is said that in no Amerind (the word Amerind is a new word coined
by the Bureau of Ethnology to take the place of the three words "North
American Indian." You will notice that it is composed or formed from
the first four letters of American and the first three letters of
Indian) language, could the Jesuit Priests find a word to express the
idea of God or His attributes. Although the most charitable of people
and showing the utmost affection for their children, the Jesuits were
unable, in the Amerind language, to impress upon them or to communicate
to them, the idea of an all-loving and charitable Supreme Being. They
had their Manitou, but they feared them and gave them the character of
the devil, one who should be propitiated by presents, by penances, or
by scourges and feasts.

In the Amerind's mind, each animal had a king, as the Great Turtle, the
Great Bear, etc. The fathers said to them if the animals have each a
Supreme Being, why should not man have a great chief of men, who lives
in the sky; a Great Spirit. This idea they accepted, and although they
did not or could not give him the attributes of the Christian's God,
the Great Spirit became "a distinct existence, a pervading power in the
universe, and a dispenser of justice."

This idea the Jesuits had to accept, although in exceptional cases, they
seemed to impress their idea of God upon some of their converts while
they had them at the missions, but they were sure to become apostates
when they returned to their people in the wilderness. So you will see
that "The Great Spirit" of the Indians is a modern idea received from
the whites and not, as some think, a Supreme Being evolved ages ago
from the Amerind mind.

Parkman says: "The primitive Indian believed in the immortality of the
soul, and that skillful hunters, brave warriors, and men of influence
went, after death, to the happy hunting-grounds, while the slothful,
the cowardly, the weak were doomed to eat serpents and ashes in dreary
and misty regions, but there was no belief that the good were to be
rewarded for moral good, or the evil punished for a moral evil."

So you will see that the writing of a history of the Mohawks would be
an arduous task, a history filled with mystery and superstition
together with kindly deeds and warlike acts, a history of a people
endowed with minds that were able to conceive a union of tribes, states
or nations, call them what you may, and to perpetuate that union for
centuries, the success of which suggested to our forefathers the union
of states, the government under which we now live.

                    L. Of C.
                                                       "HOLLANDER."




                    ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON,

            The Author of the Louisiana Purchase.

                          * * * * *

                    Hon. D. S. Alexander.

                          * * * * *


After signing the treaty ceding Louisiana to the United States, Robert
R. Livingston declared it the noblest work of his life. If one may not
assent to this enthusiastic statement of the speaker, who had been a
member of the committee to draft the immortal Declaration of
Independence, it is easy to admit that his work stands next in
historical importance to the treaty of 1783, which recognized American
independence. It added half an empire to our domain, and, a century
later, gave Edward Everett Hale opportunity to speak of Livingston as
"the wisest American of his time," since "Franklin had died in 1780."

When Livingston signed the Louisiana treaty he was fifty-six years of
age, tall and handsome, with an abundance of hair already turning gray,
which fell in ringlets over a square, high forehead, lending a certain
dignity that made him appear as great off the bench as he did when
gowned and throned as Chancellor. In the estimation of his contemporaries
he was one of the most gifted men of his time, and the judgment of a
later age has not reversed their decision. He added learning to great
natural ability, and brilliancy to profound thought, and although so
deaf as to make communication with him difficult, he came very near
concealing the defect by his remarkable eloquence and conversational
gifts. Benjamin Franklin called him "the Cicero of America." His love
for the beautiful attracted Edmund Burke. It is doubtful if he had a
superior in the State in the knowledge of history and the classics, and
in the study of science Samuel L. Mitchell alone stood above him. He
lacked the creative genius of Hamilton, the prescient gifts of Jay,
and the skill of Aaron Burr to marshal men for selfish purposes; but he
was at home in debate with the ablest men of his time, a master of
sarcasm, of trenchant wit, and of felicitous rhetoric. It is likely
that he lacked Kent's application. But of ninety-three bills passed by
the legislature from 1778 to 1801, a period that spans his life as
Chancellor, and which were afterward vetoed by the Council of Revision,
Livingston wrote opinions in twenty-three, several of them elaborate,
and all revealing capacity for legislation. In these vetoes he stood
with Hamilton in resisting forfeitures and confiscations; he held with
Richard Morris that loyal citizens could not be deprived of lands,
though bought of an alien enemy; he agreed with Jay in upholding common
law rights and limiting the death penalty; and he had the support of
George Clinton and John Sloss Hobart in disapproving a measure for the
gradual abolition of slavery, because the legislature thought it
politically expedient to deprive colored men of the right to vote who
had before enjoyed such a privilege.

In the field of politics, Livingston's search for office did not result
in a happy career. So long as he stood for a broader and stronger
national life his intellectual rays flashed far beyond the horizon of
most of his contemporaries, but the joy of public life was clouded when
he entered the domain of partisan politics. His mortification that
someone other than himself was appointed Chief Justice of the United
States Supreme Court, made Hamilton's funding system, especially the
proposed assumption of State debts, sufficient excuse for becoming an
anti-federalist, and had he possessed those qualities of leadership
that bind party and friends by ties of unflinching service, he might
have reaped the reward that his ambition so ardently craved; but his
peculiar temper unfitted him for such a career. Jealous, fretful,
sensitive, and suspicious, he was as restless as his eloquence was
dazzling, and when, at last, he became the anti-federalist candidate
for governor in 1798, in opposition to John Jay, the campaign ended in
deep humiliation. His candidacy was clearly a dash for the Presidency.
He reasoned, as every ambitious New York statesman has reasoned from
that day to this, that if he could carry the State in an off year, he
would be needed, as the candidate of his whole party, in a Presidential
year. This reasoning reduces the governorship to a sort of springboard
from which to vault into the White House, and although only one man in
a century has performed the feat, it has always figured as a popular
and potent factor in the settlement of political nominations. George
Clinton thought the Presidency would come to him, and Hamilton inspired
Jay with a similar notion; but Livingston, sanguine of better treatment,
was willing, for the sake of undertaking it, voluntarily to withdraw
from the professional path along which he had moved to great distinction.

The personal qualities which seemed to unfit Livingston for political
leadership in New York did not strengthen his usefulness in France. It
was the breadth of view which distinguished him in the formation of the
Union that brought him success as a diplomat. With the map of America
spread out before him he handled the Louisiana problem as patriotically
as he had argued for a stronger national life, and when, at last, he
signed the treaty, he had forever enlarged the geography of his country.

As the American minister to the court of Napoleon, Livingston reached
France in November, 1801. President Jefferson had already heard a rumor
of the retrocession of Louisiana by Spain to France, and had given it
little heed. He had cheerfully acquiesced in Spain's occupation of New
Orleans, and after its retrocession to France he talked pleasantly of
securing West Florida through French influence. "Such proof on the part
of France of good will toward the United States," he wrote Livingston,
in September, 1801, "would contribute to reconcile the latter to
France's possession of New Orleans." But when, a year later, a French
army, commanded by Leclerc, Napoleon's brother-in-law, had devastated
St. Domingo and aroused the hostility of American merchants and
ship-masters by his arbitrary treatment, Jefferson sensed the danger of
having Napoleon for a next-door neighbor on the Mississippi. In a moment
his tone changed from one of peace to a threat of war. "The cession of
Louisianan to France," he declared, in a letter to Livingston, April 16,
1802, "works most sorely on the United States. There is on the globe
one single spot, the possessor of which is our natural and habitual
enemy. It is New Orleans. France, placing herself in that door, assumes
to us the attitude of defiance. The day that France takes possession of
New Orleans fixes the sentence which is to restrain her forever within
her low-water mark. It seals the union of two nations, who in
conjunction can maintain exclusive possession of the ocean. From that
moment we must marry ourselves to the British fleet and nation."

In his anxiety the President also instructed Madison, his Secretary of
State, to write Pinckney, the American minister at Madrid, to guarantee
to Spain, if it had not already parted with its title, peaceable
possession of Louisiana beyond the Mississippi, on condition of its
ceding to the United States the territory, including New Orleans, on
the east side. As the year wore on, however, and Leclerc's death
followed his report of his losses, Jefferson became much easier,
advising Livingston that French possession of Louisiana would not be
"important enough to risk a breach of the peace." But before the ink
had time to dry, almost simultaneously with the death of Leclerc, came
the news, through Governor Claiborne of the Territory of Mississippi,
that the Spanish Intendent had forbidden Americans the right to deposit
their merchandise at New Orleans. This was a stunning blow to the
President. The treaty of 1795 stipulated that the King of Spain would
"permit the citizens of the United States, for the space of three years
from this time, to deposit their merchandise and effects in the Port of
New Orleans, and to export them from thence, without paying any other
duty than a fair price for the hire of the stores, and his majesty
promises either to continue this permission if he find during that time
it is not prejudicial to the interests of Spain, or, if he should not
agree to continue it thus, he will assign to them on another part of the
banks of the Mississippi an equivalent establishment." That the three
years' limitation had expired during President Adams' administration
without the right being extended or its equivalent established, did not
help Jefferson out of his difficulty, since the Kentucky and Tennessee
settlers were already cleaning their flintlocks on the theory that it
was easier to drive out a few Spaniards than to dislodge a French army
after it had fortified. This was good reasoning if Louisiana was to be
taken by force. But Jefferson, even when writing threatening letters,
had no thought of war. "Peace is our passion," he wrote Sir John
Sinclair, and in the presence of threatening hostilities he did nothing
to prepare for war. His message to Congress, which opened a few days
after the reception of Claiborne's dispatch, made no mention of the
New Orleans trouble. He talked about everything else, but of what
everybody else was talking about the President said nothing. The
western settlers, vitally interested in a depot of deposit at New
Orleans, resented such apparent apathy, and by resolutions and
legislative action encouraged the federalists to talk so loudly for
war that the President, alarmed at the condition of the public mind,
sent James Monroe's name to the Senate as minister extraordinary to
France and Spain. On January 13, 1803, the day of Monroe's confirmation,
Jefferson hastened to write him, explaining what he had done and why
he had acted. "The agitation of the public mind on occasion of the late
suspension of our right of deposit at New Orleans," said he, "is
extreme. In the western country it is natural and grounded on honest
motives; in the seaports it proceeds from a desire for war, which
increases the mercantile lottery; among federalists generally, and
especially those of Congress, the object is to force us into war if
possible, in order to derange our finances; or, if this cannot be done,
to attach the western country to them as to their best friends, and thus
get again into power. Remonstrances, memorials, etc., are now
circulating through the whole of the western country, and signed by the
body of the people. The measures we have been pursuing, being invisible,
do not satisfy their minds. Something sensible, therefore, is necessary."

This "sensible something" was Monroe's appointment, which "has already
silenced the federalists," continued the President. "Congress will no
longer be agitated by them; and the country will become calm as fast
as the information extends over it."

The better to support Monroe, Madison explained to Pichon, the French
minister in Washington, the necessity for the undivided possession of
New Orleans, claiming that it had no sort of interest for France, while
the United States had no interest in extending its population to the
right bank, since such emigration would tend to weaken the state and to
slacken the concentration of its forces. "In spite of affinities in
manners and languages," said the Secretary of State, "no colony beyond
the river could exist under the same government, but would infallibly
give birth to a separate state, having in its bosom germs of collision
with the east, the easier to develop in proportion to the very
affinities between the two empires."

This explained the true attitude of Jefferson and Madison. They did not
seek territory west of the Mississippi. Their thought centered in the
purchase of New Orleans; it was the "one spot on the globe, the
possessor of which is our natural and habitual enemy;" France's
possession of it "must marry us to the British fleet and nation;" upon
it "every eye in the United States is now fixed;" to gain it Pinckney
was charged "to guarantee to Spain the peaceable possession of the
territory beyond the Mississippi;" in Madison's opinion "the boundary
line between the United States and Louisiana should be the Mississippi;"
according to his theory "no colony beyond the Mississippi could exist
under the same government with that on the east side;" nor did the
United States have any interest in building up a colony beyond the
Mississippi. In other words, Jefferson saw only New Orleans; he wanted
only New Orleans and peace; and to get the one and keep the other,
Monroe was sent to Paris to secure "our rights and interests in the
river Mississippi and in the territories eastward thereof."

In the meantime Livingston had taken a different view. It is not clear
that he appreciated the future value of the great northwest more than
did Jefferson or Madison, but in his argument for the purchase of New
Orleans he had included in his request nine-tenths of the territory now
known as the Louisiana Purchase. Singularly enough Livingston's letter
happened to be addressed to Talleyrand, Napoleon's Minister of Foreign
Affairs, on the very day Monroe's name went to the United States Senate
for confirmation, and although the latter's instructions limited
negotiations to the east bank of the Mississippi, Livingston's argument
included the west bank. "Presuming," he writes Talleyrand, "that the
Floridas are in the hands of France, I shall predicate what I have to
offer upon that presumption. France can have but three objects in the
possession of Louisiana and Florida: The first is the command of the
Gulf; second, the supply of her islands; third, an outlet for the
people, if her European population should be too great for her
territory."

"Having treated this subject more at large in a paper which you have
had the goodness to read," Livingston continued, "I will not dwell upon
it here; but propose what it appears to be the true, policy of France
to adopt, as affecting all her objects, and at the same time
conciliating the affections of the United States, giving a permanency
to her establishments, which she can in no other way hope for. First,
let France cede to the United States so much of Louisiana as lays above
the mouth of the river Arkansas. By this a barrier will be placed
between the colony of France and Canada, from which she may, otherwise,
be attacked with the greatest facility, and driven out before she can
derive any aid from Europe. Let her possess Florida as far as the river
Perdito, with all the ports on the gulf, and cede West Florida, New
Orleans, and the territory on the west bank of the Mississippi to the
United States. This cession will only be valuable to the latter from
its giving them the mouths of the river Mobile and other small rivers
which penetrate their territory, and in calming their apprehensions
relative to the Mississippi. It may be supposed that New Orleans is a
place of some moment; it will be so to the United States, but not to
France. The right of depot which the United States claims and will
never relinquish, must be the source of continued disputes and
animosities between the two nations, and ultimately lead the United
States to aid any foreign power in the expulsion of France from that
colony. Independent of this, as the present commercial capital of New
Orleans is mostly American, it will be instantly removed to Natchez,
to which the United States can give such advantages as to render New
Orleans of little importance. Upon any other plan. Sir, it needs but
little foresight to predict that the whole of this establishment must
pass into the hands of Great Britain, which has, at the same time, the
command of the sea, and a martial colony containing every means of
attack. While the fleets block up the seaports, she can, without the
smallest difficulty, attack New Orleans from Canada with 15,000 or
20,000 men and a host of savages. France, by grasping at a desert and
an insignificant town, and thereby throwing the weight of the United
States into the scale of Britain, will render her mistress of the new
world. By the possession of Louisiana and Trinidad the colonies of
Spain will lie at her mercy. By expelling France from Florida and
possessing the ports on the Gulf, she will command the Islands. The
East and West Indies will pour their commodities into her ports; and
the precious metals of Mexico, combined with the treasures of Hindostan,
enable her to purchase nations whose aid she may require in confirming
her power. Though it would comport with the true policy and magnanimity
of France gratuitously to offer these terms to the United States, yet
they are not unwilling to purchase them at a price suited to their value
and to their own circumstances, in the hope that France will at the same
time satisfy their distressed citizens the debts which they have a right
by so many titles to demand."

These arguments do not read like the letters of Jefferson or the
instructions of Madison. There is no suggestion that the United States
is without interest in the right bank of the Mississippi for fear of a
divided government, or because germs of collision will develop in spite
of affinities in manners and language. New Orleans is minimized, the
great west is magnified. A glance at the map shows that he offered to
purchase half an empire, leaving to France only a small corner in the
southwest bordering on Texas. His argument fixed its limitation. "First,
let France cede to the United States so much of Louisiana as lay above
the mouth of the river Arkansas, West Florida, New Orleans, and the
territory on the west bank of the Mississippi." Talleyrand thought the
rest would be of little value. "I will give you a certificate," he said,
in the course of the discussion, "that you are the most importunate
negotiator I have yet met with." For this and his aid to Robert Fulton,
Edward Everett Hale called Livingston "the wisest American of his time."

Napoleon received Livingston's argument three days after he heard of
Leclerc's death. To a soldier who had entered Italy over the Alps, the
suggestion of an attack from Canada would strongly appeal; with Nelson
on the ocean, he could understand the helplessness of a French army in
New Orleans; and after the failure of Leclerc in St. Domingo, the
presence of yellow fever and other obstacles to success in Louisiana
would not seem improbable. Such a discussion at such a time, therefore,
was certain to have the most profound influence, and from January 10 to
April 10, 1803, Livingston kept his reasons constantly before the First
Consul and his ministers as the only policy to conserve the true
interest of France, to impair the strength of England, and to win the
affection of the United States.

"I have never yet had any specific instructions from you how to act or
what to offer," he wrote Madison on February 18, 1803, eighteen days
before Monroe left the United States; "but I have put into Napoleon's
hands some notes containing plain truths mixed with that species of
personal attention which I know to be most pleasing. The only basis
on which I think it possible to do anything here is to connect our
claims with offers to purchase the Floridas. Upon this subject my notes
turn. I have first endeavored to show how little advantage France is
likely to make from these colonies; the temptation they offer to
Britain to attack them by sea and from Canada; the effect a conquest
of them by Britain would have on the islands; and the monopoly which
that conquest would give to a rival power to the trade of the West as
well as of the East Indies. I have dwelt upon the importance of a
friendly intercourse between them and us, both as it respects their
commerce and the security of their islands; and I have proposed to them
the relinquishment of New Orleans and West Florida as far as the River
Perdito, together with all the territory lying to the north of the
Arkansas, under an idea that it was necessary to interpose us between
them and Canada, as the only means of preventing an attack from that
quarter. For this I proposed an indefinite sum, not wishing to mention
any till I should receive your instructions. These propositions with
certain accompaniments were well received, and were some days under the
First Consul's consideration. I am now lying on my oars in hopes of
something explicit from you. I consider the object of immense importance;
and this perhaps the favorable moment to press it."

While Livingston's letter was being read in Washington, conveying to
Jefferson the first suggestion of a purchase other than that of New
Orleans, the First Consul was making up his mind to accede to
Livingston's request. When the decision did come, it came with
Napoleonic suddenness. For three months he had considered it; but not
until Sunday, April 10, did he make known his intention; then, in a
moment, without warning, he let his desire be known to Talleyrand and
Marbois. "I can scarcely say that I cede it," said Napoleon, "for it is
not yet in our possession. If, however, I leave the least time to our
enemies, I shall only transmit an empty title." Marbois agreed,
Talleyrand dissented, and the trio parted; but at daybreak, on Monday,
Napoleon sent for Marbois, declaring that "irresolution and deliberation
are no longer in season; I renounce Louisiana. It is not only New
Orleans that I cede; it is the whole colony, without reserve. I know the
price of what I abandon. I renounce it with the greatest regret; to
attempt obstinately to retain it would be folly. I direct you to
regulate the affairs. Have an interview this very day with Mr.
Livingston."

Whatever occurred after this belongs simply to the making of a bargain.
The mind of Napoleon had acted. It is not easy, perhaps, to differentiate
the influences that led to such action, but it is not difficult to
measure them. In writing the Minister of Marine, Talleyrand explained
that "the empire of circumstances, foresight of the future, and the
intention to compensate by an advantageous arrangement for the
inevitable loss of a country which was going to be put at the mercy of
another nation--all these motives have determined the Government to
pass to the United States the right it had acquired from Spain over the
sovereignty and property of Louisiana." In brief, Napoleon's sale of
Louisiana, as explained by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, disposed of
a country which he would inevitably lose whenever war occurred with
England. This was the argument Livingston had been urging for three
months, with evident effect. Had he been less earnest or dramatic,
Napoleon's purpose might not then have exploded into an order to sell.
The American Minister knew he was dealing with a man guided by such an
implacable hatred of England, that when he was not fighting her openly,
he was plotting against her secretly; that his one purpose, his one
hope, his great ambition, was her conquest. In his argument, therefore,
Livingston dangled before him a picture to feed his hatred--a picture
of Trinidad and Louisiana forming a base from which England might drive
Spain from Florida, command the islands of the Gulf, and receive into
its ports the riches of the West Indies and the treasures of Mexico.
Thus, Livingston's presence becomes a great factor in the sale. It took
six months to communicate with the United States, but only six days to
do business with the man who was pressing the sale upon him. If more
time had elapsed, the sudden decision might have been changed with equal
suddenness, for Napoleon, aside from his inconstancy, had cause to
shrink from his intended action. It meant the violation of a sacred
pledge to Spain, the death of Talleyrand's pet colonial policy, the
certain disgust, sooner or later, of the French people, and a hot
quarrel with Lucien and Joseph Bonaparte, his brothers.

In the negotiations that followed Livingston ventured to offer twenty
million francs, and Marbois finally suggested sixty millions, with
payment of the American claim to the amount of twenty millions more.
Thus ended the historic midnight conference during which the bargain was
practically made. "It is so very important," wrote Livingston, "that
you should be apprised that a negotiation is actually opened, even
before Mr. Monroe is presented, in order to calm the tumult which the
news of war will renew, that I have lost no time in communicating it.
We shall do all we can to cheapen the purchase, but my present sentiment
is that we shall buy."

Considering the extent of the purchase and the danger of delay,
Livingston would have been justified in closing the bargain then and
there. Had he known the action of Lucien Bonaparte, who had secured the
cession from Spain, and of Joseph's insincerity, upon whom he even
depended to help along the negotiation, he might well have taken counsel
of his fears; but the great real estate dealer enjoyed driving a good
bargain, and so he argued and held aloof, professing that the United
States "had no disposition to extend across the river;" that they "would
be perfectly satisfied with New Orleans and the Floridas;" that they
"could not give any great sum for the purchase;" that "it was vain to
ask anything so greatly beyond our means;" that "true policy would
dictate to the First Consul not to press such a demand," since "he must
know the payment of such a sum would render the present government
unpopular." He minimized the importance of the deal, describing West
Florida as "barren sands and sunken marshes," and New Orleans as "a
small town built of wood, of about seven thousand souls," a territory
"only valuable to the United States because it contained the mouths of
some of their rivers," going so far as to venture a prophecy that "an
emigrant would not cross the Mississippi in a hundred years;" yet,
throughout weeks of dickering, he never surrendered his purpose to buy
whether the price be cheapened or not.

His anxiety was greatly increased by the disclosure of Monroe's
commission, since it contained power only to treat for lands on the
east side of the Mississippi. "It may, if things should take a turn
favorable to France," he wrote Madison, April 17, "defeat all we may do,
even at the moment of signing. . . . You will recollect that I have been
long preparing this government to yield us the country above the
Arkansas, . . . and I am therefore surprised that our commission should
have entirely lost sight of the object."

Livingston's fears proved groundless, and the dickering went on until
April 29, when Marbois' original figures were accepted sixty million
francs to France, and twenty million francs to American claimants; in
all, fifteen million dollars. Three days later, on May 2, 1803, the
treaty was signed.

It is not surprising that Livingston felt proud and happy. Other
treaties of consequence had been negotiated by Americans--the treaty of
alliance with France, the treaty of peace with England, and Jay's treaty
of 1795; but none was more important than Livingston's. Besides, it was
unparalleled in the field of diplomacy, since Louisiana cost,
comparatively, almost nothing.

Perhaps Livingston's pride was only equaled by Jefferson's surprise. A
mother is usually prepared for the coming of the baby that is to enlarge
and illuminate her home. Its clothes are ready, the nursery is
furnished, and everything is waiting its advent; but President Jefferson
was unprepared for the Louisiana Purchase. It was so entirely unsought
on his part that he had given the subject no consideration until half
an empire came tumbling upon him like a great meteor out of the midnight
sky. At first, he thought he would cede a part of it to the Indians in
exchange for their holdings on the east side of the Mississippi, and
"shut up all the rest from settlement for a long time to come." "I have
indulged myself in these details," he writes James Dickinson, August 9,
1803, "because the subject being new it is advantageous to interchange
ideas on it and to get our notions all corrected before we are obliged
to act upon them." Then he raised the question of a constitutional
amendment. "I suppose Congress must appeal to the nation for an
additional article to the constitution approving and confirming an act
which the nation had not previously authorized," he wrote Senator
Breckenridge of Kentucky. "The constitution has made no provision for
our holding foreign territory, still less for incorporating foreign
nations into our Union. The Executive in seizing the fugitive occurrence
which so much advances the good of their country have done an act beyond
the constitution."

When such views reached France, Livingston hurried off several letters
to Jefferson, assuring him "that were the business to do over again it
would never be done. They think we have obtained an immense advantage
over them. Though the appearance of war had some influence, it had much
less than is ascribed to it. I know from a faithful source that the
Spanish government has made the most serious remonstrances against the
cession of Louisiana, and that it is now well understood that, if any
additional clause of ratification should be introduced by the United
States, this government would profit of the circumstance to annul the
whole work."

Jefferson did not need a further hint. "I wrote you on the 12th inst.
on the subject of Louisiana and the constitutional provision which might
be necessary for it," he says to Senator Breckenridge. "A letter just
received yesterday shows that nothing must be said on that subject which
may give a pretext for retreating, but that we should do _sub silentio_
what shall be found necessary. Be so good, therefore, as to consider
that part of my letter confidential. It strengthens the reason for
desiring the presence of every friend of the treaty on the first day of
the session. Perhaps you can impress this necessity on the Senators from
the western States by private letter."

President Jefferson was a strict constructionist. He did not believe the
constitution gave Congress power to acquire additional territory; he
dreaded the concentration of power in the executive, and perhaps his
teachings did more than all other men to inspire the popular mind with
that dread; but when he discovered that the time required to secure a
constitutional amendment, exciting, as it would, a long debate in
Congress, might defeat the Louisiana Purchase by arousing French feeling
against its sale, he did not hesitate to bury his constitutional
convictions, and to force through Congress the necessary ratification.
Nor did he ever attempt any defense of his inconsistency save that the
welfare of the nation demanded such action. Thomas Jefferson was not
afraid of being inconsistent. To a great soul this is not weakness.
There are ages that are creative. At such times two classes of men are
prominent and needed--one shackled to traditions, the other guided by
visions. Thomas Jefferson belonged to the latter. In 1776 the American
people not only broke the bonds binding them to old England, but forged
other bonds which would bind them to a new political, social and
industrial order, and of those who hammered these new ties into harmony
with the longing and aspirations of men, Thomas Jefferson stands among
the foremost Fathers. He got his light from within. He believed in the
people, in the government which they had accepted, and with Gladstonian
enthusiasm he sought to lead the one and mould the other along lines of
stability; but when theory and idealism ran counter to practice and
experience, he did not hesitate to adopt the practical and let theory
wait. This is the secret of his action in 1803. To cling to an abstract
principle would lose an appreciable blessing to his country, and so he
let go the abstract principle. This is the inconsistency of a great
statesman, the contradictoriness of genius.

But commendable as was the part of Thomas Jefferson in that great
transaction, it must not conceal the truth of history. He was not even
the promoter, much less the author of the Purchase. His mind was intent
upon a present need, a single spot, instant relief, made necessary by
the fierce demand of a frontier people claiming a depot of deposit. It
was Robert R. Livingston who had the vision.

The distinguished Chancellor, however, did not prove as careful and
painstaking a lawyer as he was bold and successful as a diplomatist, for
in drawing the claims convention, he neglected to include all claims,
estimated their total much too low, omitted a rule of apportionment,
and, most grievous of all, left the final decision as to what claims
should be selected for payment to the French government. This was the
rock that wrecked him. The legitimate claims of American citizens
amounted to many millions, but Livingston fixed the limit at three and
three-quarters millions, and compelled claimants to secure settlement
through the corrupt Talleyrand and his rascally agents, who took
one-half for their services. Livingston thought he had drafted the
convention "with particular attention," and Monroe, who thought
differently, tried his hand with no better success; then Marbois turned
it to the advantage of the Frenchmen. The Americans needed a careful
lawyer.

The scandal growing out of this convention deepened and cankered until
Livingston quarreled with the American Claims Commissioners, excited
remonstrances from the British government, and nagged the United States
consul at Paris into charging him not only with blind and insatiable
vanity, with hints of corrupt and criminal motives, but with "imbecility
of mind."

"I considered the claims convention as a trifle compared with the other
great object," he explained to Madison, "and as it had already delayed
us many days, I was ready to take it under any form." He was clearly
right in the comparative importance of the treaty and the convention,
but after Marbois had reserved to the French government the right of
final decision in each case, Livingston was inexcusable in omitting a
rule of apportionment, since it excluded all claimants except the
favored few whom the corrupt Frenchman selected because of their
willingness to divide.

But the poisoned arrow that entered deepest into Livingston's soul was
the robbery of his laurels. His successful negotiation of the treaty,
putting him into the class from which Presidents were then drawn, won
him the dislike of Jefferson, the distrust of Madison, and the jealousy
of Monroe, who, considering him a rival, carefully concealed whatever
would reflect credit upon him. His dispatches to Madison became a sealed
book in the Department of State; his letters to Jefferson were not
suffered to shadow the President's halo; his work, practically completed
before Monroe's arrival in Paris, did not reach the eye or the ear of
the American people. The great achievement filled the air, rejoicing the
country as no other event since the treaty of peace with England, but
little praise came to Livingston. The public gave Monroe credit for the
treaty, and Livingston discredit for the claims convention. When,
finally, Monroe admitted that his part in the negotiation amounted to
nothing, he also encouraged the belief that Livingston did as little.
It is impossible to say, of course, just what influenced Napoleon to
give Marbois the order of April 11. It was not war, for war did not come
until a year later; it was not money, for the Prince of Peace would have
given more; it was not anger at Spain, for no real cause then existed;
it was not fear of England, for Bonaparte did not fear an enemy he
expected to crush; it was not St. Domingo, for Leclerc's failure already
belonged to the past, with Corsica and Egypt. Perhaps Napoleon himself
could not have given the real reason. But, however this may be, the fact
is deeply embedded in history that Livingston was the first American to
suggest the acquisition of that then vast and dimly outlined country
which has been known for over a hundred years as the Louisiana
Purchase--stretching west and northwest of the Mississippi, above the
winding Arkansas, beyond the waters of the Missouri, across plains and
flower-covered prairies to the far-away Rockies, where the Yellowstone
leaps from its hiding, and snow-clad summits pierce a summer's sky.




[Illustration: THE FOUNDERS OF TEMPERANCE. (From an Old Print.)]



                   THE BIRTH AT MOREAU OF THE
                     TEMPERANCE REFORMATION.

                          * * * * *

                By Dr. Charles A. Ingraham.

                          * * * * *


History concerns itself chiefly with the fiats of kings, the councils
of cabinets, the enactments of legislatures, the processes and results
of diplomacy and the issues of war. Upon the pages of the world's annals
appears the magnificent pageantry of the past, as with silken banners
and silver trumpets dominion proudly passes in perpetual review. Thus,
as the historian animates his chapters with those dramatic, intellectual
and heroic elements which abound in the court, the statehouse and upon
the field of battle, the high spirit of chivalry is encouraged and an
intelligent patriotism is promoted. But how fares it with that company
of men and women who, frequently in obscure places and by unpretentious
methods, have in the realms of discovery, invention and ethics, also
advanced the prosperity and happiness of society? It must be admitted
that they are too often neglected and that the fruitful lessons which
their lives have to communicate remain too generally unappropriated.
This paper, diverging somewhat from the beaten highway of history, has
for its purpose, to rescue from threatened oblivion the memory of a
noble man and the record of his monumental work.

A few months since, while attending a convention held in one of the
churches of Easton, the discussion having turned to the subject of
temperance, I remarked that it might be proper to state that we were
congregated not far from the place where the world's first temperance
society had its birth. I was afterward surprised and gratified to learn
that in that very neighborhood Dr. Clark, its founder, had dwelt when
a young man engaged in the study of medicine. Not being of a
superstitious turn, I have dismissed from my mind the notion that his
shade was at my elbow prompting me to introduce him to the audience. My
interest having been revived, I consulted the leading reference books
with the result of discovering that, while they all were in substantial
agreement as to Dr. Clark having established the initial temperance
association at Moreau in 1808, there were no biographical accounts of
him, nor details concerning the history of the organization. This, for
so great an event and institution, struck me as being a very remarkable
omission. My curiosity to learn more was now stronger than ever, and the
centennial anniversary of the formation of the association being near,
I resolved to unearth, if possible, the full history of the society and
the life of its founder. Being utterly in the dark as to any authority
upon the subject, I made known my desire for information through the
medium of newspapers circulating in the historic townships, and with
gratifying results.

My principal materials have been these: "The History of the Temperance
Reformation," 1853, by Rev. Lebbeus Armstrong, a member of the society
and intimately associated with Dr. Clark in the establishment of the
same; "A History of Temperance in Saratoga County," 1855, by Judge
William Hay; and an obituary by the late Dr. A. W. Holden, of Glens
Falls, which appeared in the Messenger of that place in 1866. The last
is an admirable elucidation of the life and character, to the closing
day, of the great champion of temperance. The two physicians had been
fellow townsmen, and evidently friends, if we may judge by the
sympathetically appreciative manner with which Dr. Holden writes. Of the
408 pages of Armstrong's and of the 153 pages of Hay's book, but
comparatively few are devoted to Dr. Clark and his work. The authors
boast of him and his achievement, but, living yet in the dim light of
his day, they were evidently unable to perceive fully the grandeur of
the moral movement which he had inaugurated. Hence, their works are
taken up mainly with discussions of the Maine liquor law, which then
agitated much of the country. Armstrong's and Hay's books have become
very rare, but copies of both may be found in the New York State library.

Among every people, in every age, intemperance has been recognized as
an evil, and from ancient times a variety of means have been adopted to
prevent or diminish its desolating influences. Royal decrees have gone
forth commanding the rooting up of vineyards, and parliaments have
legislated against it. The code of Draco even went so far as to visit
the penalty of death upon the drunkard. The milder methods of moral
suasion have, since the earliest recorded days, been with loving
constancy declaimed in the ears of the people, but so imperative is the
demand for strong drink that the cup continues in spite of all
hindrances to hold dominion over multitudes of men.

But beyond all other peoples of the world in love of intoxicating
beverages stand the Teutonic races, among whom it is said distilled
liquors were first substituted for fermented drinks. The classic pages
of Tacitus tell us of the unbridled license which the northern tribes
of Europe gave to their appetites and of the scenes of drunken riot
which characterized their social events. The chase, the battle and the
feast were their delights, and when done with life, their ambition was
to reside in the immortal hall of Valhalla. There, each day having
fought before the palace, and with every trace of their wounds duly
obliterated, they hoped to sit down daily to regale themselves with mead
and meat. The convivial propensities of the Teuton have been inherited
by the Anglo-Saxon race, and it cannot be denied that the English
speaking people are among the heaviest drinking populations of the
earth. Yet, the Germanic family of nations has done more for the
advancement of civilization than perhaps any other race in history. It
has emancipated and exalted woman, and hallowed the home, and fostered
patriotism and religion. It has produced the greatest scholars, the most
brilliant scientists and the profoundest philosophers. But among nations
as among individuals, it is against the intellectually highly organized
that the genius of alcohol particularly directs its malevolent arts.

The latter half of the 18th century saw England almost overwhelmed with
drunkenness and its associated vices. In a sermon entitled, "On
Dissipation," by John Wesley, published in 1788, he opens his discourse
with this statement:

 "Almost in every part of our nation, more especially in the large and
 populous towns, we hear a general complaint among sensible persons of
 the still increasing dissipation. It is observed to diffuse itself more
 and more in the court, the city and the country."

During the close of the same period this country was given over body and
soul to the alluring power of inebriation. Intemperance was the rule
rather than the exception, as it has become in our day. Occasions of
birth, marriage and death were alike considered appropriate to the free
indulgence in liquor, and all classes participated in the drinking, even
clergymen joining in the convivialities with little or no forfeiture of
dignity.

Social distempers, like those of the body, are accompanied by the agency
of restoration. The sick man, debilitated and suffering from the
violence of his symptoms, seeks his bed and calls his physician, thus
placing himself in the most favorable attitude for recovery. Were it not
for the realization of his distress, he might, in default of rest and
medicine, hurry himself into the grave. So, within some of the more
morally sensitive souls of the country, commenced to be experienced an
unhappy sense of our degradation and depth of misery. Cries of warning
and expostulation began to be heard in the land. One of these rose
higher than the others, even echoing down through the years to our own
time. It was that of Dr. Benjamin Rush, of Philadelphia. Standing in
relation to Dr. Clark as of a voice crying in the wilderness, his work
in the field of temperance merits more than a casual remark. It consists
of but a small, thirty-two page pamphlet, but condensed in its limited
proportions is a world of moral dynamite.

It bears the title: "An Inquiry Into the Effects of Ardent Spirits Upon
the Human Body and Mind, With an Account of the Means of Preventing and
of the Remedies for Curing Them," and was published in 1785. So great
had been the salutary influence of this little treatise, that the
centennial anniversary of its issue was duly celebrated at Philadelphia.
It is not a profound essay; indeed, the wayfaring man, though a fool,
may easily grasp its lucid ideas. Neither is it calculated to be very
offensive to any class of readers, for it takes issue only with
distilled liquors, recommending fermented beverages as substitutes.
Moreover, the confirmed toper can read the pamphlet, not only without
umbrage, but with interest; for there is an intensity, a directness of
statement in its style which hold the reader, even to this day, with
the simple art of its literary merit. Besides, there appears running
through its pages a quaint humor, which no doubt had much to do with
gaining its popularity throughout the length and breadth of the land.



[Illustration: From Your Father, B. J. Clark.]



A unique and ingenious feature of the essay is the author's "Moral and
Physical Thermometer," which forms its frontispiece. On the ascending
scale, "Strong Beer" is placed in the lowest and "Water" at the highest
degree, with remarks indicating improving mental and physical conditions
in the rising course. On the descending scale, "Punch" occupies the
highest while "Rum day and night" is found at the lowest place,
accompanied between points by a fearfully intensifying array of vices,
diseases and penalties.

In this connection might be quoted the author's interpretation of a
familiar myth:

 "The fable of Prometheus, on whose liver a vulture was said to prey
 constantly, as a punishment for his stealing fire from heaven, was
 intended to illustrate the painful effects of ardent spirits upon that
 organ of the body."

Here is a curious anticipation of the modern gold cure, as it took form
in the fertile intellect of Dr. Rush:

 "The association of the idea of ardent spirits, with a painful or
 disagreeable impression upon some part of the body, has sometimes cured
 the love of strong drink. . . . This appeal to that operation of the
 human mind, which obliges it to associate ideas, accidentally or
 otherwise combined, for the cure of vice, is very ancient. It was
 resorted to by Moses when he compelled the Children of Israel to drink
 the solution of the golden calf (which they had idolized) in water.
 This solution if made, as it most probably was, by means of what is
 called hepar sulphuris, was extremely bitter, and nauseous, and could
 never be recollected afterwards, without bringing into equal
 detestation, the sin which subjected them to the necessity of drinking
 it."

In this pamphlet was sounded the first effective call for a combined
movement against the evil of intemperance--a trumpet call which
reverberated in the soul of Dr. Clark until, nobly responding, he stood
forth alone before the world, having inscribed upon his banner the word,
Organization. For Dr. Rush had said:

 "Let good men of every class unite and besiege the general and state
 governments, with petitions to limit the number of taverns, to impose
 heavy duties upon ardent spirits, to inflict a mark of disgrace, or a
 temporary abridgment of some civil right upon every man convicted of
 drunkenness. . . . To aid the operation of these laws, would it not be
 extremely useful for the rulers of the different denominations of
 Christian churches to unite and render the sale and consumption of
 ardent spirits a subject of ecclesiastical jurisdiction?"

Such are a few of the characteristic portions of Dr. Rush's famous
essay, a work which revived, not only the moral sense of this country,
but also of England, where it was republished in the following year. But
the giant of intemperance exhibited no signs of weakness, though he had
been undoubtedly pierced in a vital part. The weapon of Dr. Rush had
been slim, but keen--a highly tempered rapier, more effective than in
after years was the broad sword of Lyman Beecher's "Sermons on
Temperance." With an amiable exterior, the skillful reforming fencer had
managed to keep his antagonist off his guard while he transfixed and
permanently crippled him. But another mode of attack was necessary in
order to bring him under control. To indulge yet further in figurative
speech: Dr. Rush had manufactured the ammunition but who was to fire
the gun?

It is always a pleasure to visit the homes of eminent persons who long
since have died. To look upon the scenes that they once beheld; to walk
in the paths that they once trod, is like coming into familiar
intercourse with the intimate friend of the honored dead, and we go
from the places hallowed by such associations with a sense of having
gained almost a personal acquaintance with the great who there have had
a habitation. The native town of Dr. Billy James Clark was beautiful
old Northampton, in Massachusetts. Primitively Nonotuck of the Indians,
it was venerable even on his birthday, January 4, 1778, and then, as
now, it was foremost in culture and intelligence. Here, Jonathan Edwards
had lived and labored, leaving upon the town an ineradicable impress of
his saintly character and heavenly doctrines. Here, David Brainerd the
zealous missionary to the Indians, broken in health, had died under the
roof of Edwards, who had extended to him the loving hand of hospitality.
It was eminently fitting that a life destined to exercise so profoundly
beneficial an influence in promoting the higher estate of the race
should have its beginning in a town so distinguished for its
enlightenment and piety.

Ithamar Clark, when his little son Billy was about six years old, left
Northampton and took up his residence in Williamstown, Massachusetts,
where also was the home of Mrs. Clark's father. For a period of four
years the boy attended the school which afterwards developed into
Williams College, at the end of which time the family changed its home
to Pownal, Vermont. Of the details of the domestic life of the Clarks,
we have no record. Nothing is known of the wife of Ithamar Clark, except
that her maiden name was Sarah Simonds, and that she was a daughter of
Benjamin Simonds, who had been a colonel in the Continental army,
serving in the campaign against Burgoyne. It is probable that the moral
and religious leanings of Dr. Clark were inherited from or instilled by
his mother. His father seems not to have been much interested in the
ideas that his son did so much to advance. Previous to his settling at
Pownal, he had followed agriculture and shoe-making, but now, in the
capacity of tavern-keeper, he began selling liquor.

In Dr. Holden's article it is stated that the tavern was located upon a
farm that Mr. Clark had purchased, one and a half miles from Pownal on
the Bennington road.

Young Billy Clark, standing behind his father's bar and dealing out
intoxicating drinks, was in a position to observe thoroughly the
pernicious effects of dallying with alcohol. His daily occupation was
an open book, as thrilling as lurid chapters of fiction, and the letters
of it remained upon his soul in characters of unquenchable fire. Abraham
Lincoln, when a young man, having gone down the Mississippi as a
flat-boatman, visited the slave market of New Orleans. He was deeply
affected by the harrowing scenes he there beheld, and he registered a
vow that should ever the opportunity present itself, he would strike
with all his power the institution that encouraged such iniquities. Thus
was planted the germ that budded, blossomed and bore fruit in the
Proclamation of Emancipation. No doubt it was the memory of his father's
bar-room, with the evils radiating from it, that urged forward Dr. Clark
to the culmination of his great destiny.

Some writers give the name of Dr. Clark as William J. or W. J. Clark,
but he himself signed it, B. J. Clark, while the best authorities refer
to him as Dr. Billy J. Clark. It is probable that Dr. Clark, becoming
widely known by the more familiar title, found it convenient to
substitute the same for William.

When about fifteen years of age, his father having died, young Clark
returned to Northampton to attend school there for a term of one year.
This experience was probably of great benefit to the youth, not only in
improving his education, but by introducing him to one of the most
refined and intelligent communities in New England. The inspiration of
the life of Edwards was dominant in the society of the old town, and his
books were still treasured and read. It is interesting to reflect that
the living spirit of the great divine may have been a quickening
influence in the heart of this thoughtful youth; that the story of the
heroic life of Brainerd may have appealed to his religious and
enterprising nature; that the memory of one or both of these devoted men
may have contributed to the molding of his mind into the worthy fashion
in which it subsequently displayed itself to the world. Be this as it
may, not long after his return to the farm, he abandoned the bar and
began the study of medicine under Dr. Caleb Gibbs, of Pownal. Still
making his home at the farm, he pursued his studies for the space of two
years, remunerating his preceptor by assuming the care of his horses.
We find him at the end of that period, in 1797, entering as a student
the office of Dr. Lemuel Wicker, of Easton, Washington County, N. Y.,
with whom he remained until March 21, 1799, when he began the practice
of medicine in the town of Moreau. He opened his office not far from
what afterwards became known as Clark's Corners. This historic
neighborhood is situated about three miles in a westerly direction from
Fort Edward, and five miles south of Glens Falls. Here, having married
Joanna Payn, of Fort Miller, and purchased a farm, he made his permanent
residence. The rise of Dr. Clark had been phenomenal; from a bartender
to the dignity of a profession, and all in the space of four or five
years! Dr. Clark was but twenty-one when he came to Moreau. Having
previously satisfied the preliminary requirements, he was advanced to
the full privileges of a physician in a license granted by the judge of
the court of common pleas for Washington County, in the month of June
following his settlement in Saratoga County.

From his home in Moreau, Dr. Clark for thirty-four years went up and
down the long stretches of his rides, ministering faithfully to the
sick. The region was in a primitive condition, with poor roads, and was
but thinly inhabited. Exhausting to body and mind, as must necessarily
have been his labors, he yet had a disposition to employ himself in the
sphere of agriculture and to inform himself upon the political issues
of the day. In 1820 he represented his county as Member of Assembly.
Through his daily visits to the sick, Dr. Clark was afforded exceptional
advantages for observing and studying the effects upon the people of the
prevailing intemperance, which had taken a particularly strong grasp
upon the population among which he had come to dwell.

Armstrong seems to attribute the heavy drinking in Moreau to the leading
industry, stating that "all the towns and counties in the vicinity of
the ever-rolling Hudson were teeming with lumber."

Whatever may have been the predisposing cause of the general and
excessive use of intoxicants in England, it is not difficult to point
out the conditions which contributed to the growth of the same practice
in this country. The lives of the people were laborious, monotonous, and
unmitigated by those social relaxations which in modern times so greatly
lighten the burdens and alleviate the sorrows of life. Books and
periodicals were not plentiful, and the character of the prevailing
literature was not such as to invite the attention of the average
reader. Transportation being by horsepower along the country roads,
public houses, each with its bar, were encountered at every turn, while
the little stores to be found at the cross-roads, also dispensed liquor
to all comers. Add to this the fact that the materials from which
intoxicating beverages are manufactured were abundantly grown within our
borders, and near to our shores, and it will be appreciated how
naturally the people fell into intemperate habits.

For a period of nine years, while Dr. Clark, in all extremities of
weather, rode on horseback to the bedsides of his widely separated
patients, the burden of the drink-evil weighed heavily upon his mind.
He was a man of energy; one who was not easily thwarted in the carrying
out of his plans. But here was a task that seemed too hard for him. What
could one man accomplish in the presence of such indifference and
overwhelming opposition?

The mode of action that Dr. Clark finally adopted was that of
organization--a working together of the friends of temperance for a
common purpose. This now seems like a very natural solution of the
problem of finding his best means of procedure; but Dr. Clark was the
first man to announce and to give the idea practical demonstration,
though it is not probable that he possessed any clearly defined
conception of the lines along which it was to operate, nor of the vast
proportions which the movement was destined to attain. Like a prophet
under the guiding influence of inspiration, scarcely knowing what he
did, he was yet availing himself of a fundamental principle of all
nature. For, investigate wherever one may, from the vilest atom of earth
to the court of high heaven, organization is the law of every upward
step. The ancients, dimly apprehending this sublime truth, conceived of
the universe as a gigantic animal, a cosmic leviathan, whole, complete
and harmonious in all its parts, while philosophy has ever striven,
though in vain, to demonstrate by processes of reason what the higher
authority of intuition has proclaimed in all generations.

Dr. Rush, by reason of a liberal education, supplemented by medical
study in the capitals of Europe, and on account of his high social,
professional and literary standing, greatly outshone his coworker, the
struggling country doctor on the frontier of Northern New York. But
these two greatest factors in the advent of the temperance reformation,
and who, it should be said, were acquaintances through the medium of
correspondence, each performed his peculiar part, and who can determine
which is entitled to the greater honor. Dr. Rush manufactured the
ammunition, but Dr. Clark fired the gun, his match being organization.

The idea of forming a temperance society had perhaps been suggested to
Dr. Clark by his connection with the Saratoga County Medical Society,
the first institution of its kind in this state, and of which he was the
founder. He had attempted early in April, 1808, to interest prominent
men, whom he had met at Ballston Springs at a session of court, in his
projected temperance enterprise. His plan may have been to establish a
central society at the county seat and to encourage the organization of
branches in the surrounding towns; but, to use Dr. Clark's own words,
"they with one accord began to make excuses and brand our scheme as
Utopian and visionary." Previous to this, however, he had taken the
initiative in the work among his neighbors, for he says: "I returned to
Moreau like a bow well bent that had not lost its elasticity, and
resumed the labor there." The determination he exhibited was remarkable,
and one cannot dwell upon the difficulties with which he contended and
meditate upon the unselfish, devoted and humanitarian spirit by which he
was actuated without expressing admiration.

The first successful step in the sublime drama of the temperance
reformation took place in the same month of April, referred to a moment
ago, when Dr. Clark made his memorable visit to his minister. I quote
from Armstrong:

 "After having projected a plan of a temperance organization, the doctor
 determined on a visit to his minister, the author of these memoirs, who
 was then the pastor of the flourishing Congregational church in the
 town of Moreau. The visit was made on a dark evening, no moon and
 cloudy. After riding on horseback about three miles, through deep mud
 of clay road, in the breaking-up of winter, the doctor knocked at his
 minister's door, and on entrance, before taking seat in the house, he
 earnestly uttered the following words: 'Mr. Armstrong, I have come to
 see you on important business.' Then, lifting up both hands, he
 continued: 'We shall all become a community of drunkards in this town
 unless something is done to arrest the progress of intemperance.'"

The poet has sung in soul-stirring numbers of the midnight ride of Paul
Revere. There are, indeed, certain resemblances between it and Dr.
Clark's historic adventure. It was night; there was national peril;
heroes were in the saddle, and the voices of their fervent appeals were
destined to reverberate down the aisles of time--"words that shall echo
forevermore."

Due notice having been given to the people of the towns of Moreau and
Northumberland, a meeting for the purpose of forming a temperance
society was held at the public house of Captain Peter L. Mawney, at
Clark's Corners, on April 13, 1808. Resolutions were adopted, the chief
of which was that "in the opinion of this meeting it is proper,
practicable and necessary to form a temperance society in this place;
and that the great and leading object of this society is wholly to
abstain from ardent spirits." A committee, of which Dr. Clark was
chairman, was appointed to prepare the Bylaws for the organization, and
twenty-three persons enrolled themselves as members.

The following is the list of the signers: Isaac B. Payn, Ichabod Hawley,
David Parsons, James Mott, Alvaro Hawley, Thomas Cotton, David
Tillotson, Billy J. Clark, Charles Kellogg, Jr., Elnathan Spencer,
Asaph Putnam, Hawley St. John, Nicholas W. Angle, Dan Kellogg, Ephraim
Ross, John M. Berry, John T. Sealy, Cyrus Wood, James Rogers, Henry
Martin, Sidney Berry, Joseph Sill, Solomon St. John.

The meeting having adjourned one week, to April 20, at the Mawney house,
a long and comprehensive system of By-laws was then adopted. Article I
stated that "This society shall be known by the appellation of Union
Temperance Society of Moreau and Northumberland." Like Dr. Rush's essay,
the Constitution of the society took grounds only against spirituous
liquors, making exceptions regarding the use of them in circumstances
of religious ordinances, sickness and public dinners.

It was not until 1843 that the society "after a long season of
declension," on a motion put by Dr. Clark, adopted a resolution of total
abstinence.

Col. Sidney Berry, ex-judge of Saratoga county, was chosen president and
Dr. Clark secretary of the new society. As there exists an apparent
contradiction as to the particular roof under which this historic
meeting was held, one account stating that it occurred at the Mawney
house and another at the neighboring school house, it is proper to say
here that this discrepancy is removed by the statement made in Judge
Hay's book, page 22, that the session opened in the Mawney house, but
that "the society completed its organization" in the school house. In
the association, as a coherent institution, coming into existence within
the walls of such a building, may be found a prophecy of what the
temperance movement in the future was to lay particular stress upon--that
is, upon temperance teaching in the public schools. Indeed, it should be
said that the Moreau society itself was an educative organization as
well as a moral one, having a circulating library and maintaining a
lyceum.

But, although it had at its head intelligent, high-minded and
enterprising men, its career was hard and discouraging to its members.
"That little, feeble band of temperance brethren," says Armstrong,
"holding their quarterly and annual meetings in a country district
school house from April, 1808, onward for several years, without the
presence of a single female at their temperance meetings; who were made
the song of the drunkard; who were ridiculed by the scoffs of the
intemperate world; undisciplined in arms of even moral suasive tactics
for warfare, and unable of themselves to encounter the Prince of Hell,
with his legions of instrumentalities . . . were, nevertheless, the seed
of the great temperance reformation."

That Armstrong deplored the narrow ideas which prevailed to the
discouraging of women from fraternizing with the society, is more
explicitly shown in the words which express his gratification in the
great numbers of women who, by their presence and cooperation,
subsequently aided so much in the promotion of the work. Dr. Clark also
protested against the exclusion of women from membership in the
temperance societies. These statements are introduced that it may be
known that the two leading men in the Moreau society would have hailed
with delight the advent of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union. That
great institution, not reckoning many others devoted to the same cause,
is of itself alone a glorious monument to the pioneers of Moreau who,
in a tempest of scorn and ridicule, laid its foundations. Wisely the
Woman's Christian Temperance Union, as the name implies, built up its
sublime edifice of the same material--the granite of organization. From
towns, through counties, states, nations and the civilized world, it
carries on systematically its vast and beneficent enterprises. Words
cannot express, nor the mind conceive, the power of the prodigious
engine which, distributed in a diversity of directions, is being exerted
daily, hourly and momentarily by this great association of consecrated
women. And here let me say that not only did the temperance reformation
come into existence within the borders of our commonwealth, but that the
late Frances Elizabeth Willard, the great light in the organization of
which I have been speaking, was a daughter of the state of New York.

Dr. Clark continued in the practice of medicine for a quarter of a
century after the formation of the Moreau temperance society, making his
residence on the farm of his original purchase. Of this long period of
professional labor there remains no memorial, though in common with the
routine duties of medical men, it undoubtedly abounded in elements
which, interesting of themselves, would be all the more so as belonging
to the life of one so distinguished in the annals of reform. Beginning
to experience the physical effects of his protracted devotion to his
profession, and having accumulated considerable property, Dr. Clark in
1833 purchased real estate in Glens Falls and embarked there in the
retail drug business. This successful enterprise engaged his attention
until 1849, when he retired from trade. Two years later, longing for the
quiet life on the farm, he returned to reside at the old home at Clark's
Corners. He was now at the age of seventy-three, but enjoyed, with the
exception of a gradual failing of the sense of sight, an almost
unimpaired mental and physical vitality. But the gloom before his eyes
grew remorselessly thicker and thicker until every familiar scene and
the faces of family and friends faded from his view. In the custody of
this great affliction, the spirit of Dr. dark was not crushed, but
rather purified and exalted, so that he who in earlier years had been
conspicuous as the heroic leader, was now none the less remarkable for
his Christian humility, hope and love. A few years longer he tarried
upon the earth, in order that there might be registered upon the hearts
of men the beauty and nobility of the character that was his. And then,
at Glens Falls, in the home of his son, James C. Clark, the spirit of
the great reformer went to its long home. His death occurred on
Wednesday morning, September 20, 1866. Dr. Holden says: "The
intelligence of his departure was swiftly borne through the place; his
name was on every lip as all, with hushed reverence, bore testimony to
his virtues, and to the usefulness of a life luminous with the light of
a Christ-born principle."

Notwithstanding his portrait, in its severe lines, gives evidence of his
decisive mind and undeviating purpose, he yet possessed elements of
character that endeared him to all. While in terms of affectionate
banter, alluding to his spirit of determination and his practice of
proposing to formulate the mind of public meetings in resolutions, he
was sometimes spoken of as "Resolution Billy," the people knew that
beneath the crust of self-reliant earnestness dwelt the loving
humanitarian and the undying fires of a moral volcano.

Unlike the experience of the most of those who entertain pronounced
ideas and proclaim them in the face of established custom. Dr. Clark
seems to have retained his popularity. Evidently he was a very tactful
man. In 1809, the year following the formation of the temperance
society, he was made supervisor of the town of Moreau, and although his
activity, constant, wide and diversified, was being powerfully directed
against the intemperate habits of the people, he seems to have
maintained their confidence and friendship. He was again chosen
supervisor in 1821. We may derive a hint of his high standing in the
public estimation from the fact that he was chosen in 1848 for the New
York Electoral college, whose choice was Taylor and Filmore.

The funeral address of Rev. A. J. Fennel, of the Glens Falls
Presbyterian Church, has been preserved and appears as a supplement to
Dr. Holden's obituary article. Rev. Mr. Fennel having been Dr. Clark's
pastor, his discourse is of great biographical value. His opening
remarks were particularly well chosen and impressive. He said:

 "I feel, my friends, that Providence calls us to perform no mean office
 to-day. We are to convey to their final resting place the mortal
 remains of one who has been a power in the world for great good to the
 children of men--whose name will enter into history as that of a
 benefactor of the community; and whose influence, as an element in the
 temperance reformation, will run on into future generations. It cannot
 do us any hurt, it ought to do us good, to pause a few moments in this
 habitation now made sacred as the spot whence the earnest spirit of so
 devoted and useful a man took its departure to the heavenly rest, and
 reflect on his life of activity and toil, and observe how Providence
 used him for our good and the good of our children."

With appropriate public demonstrations, the remains of Dr. Clark were
borne to the burying ground of the Union Meeting House, in Moreau, and
placed to rest beside the grave of his wife. There, two miles from the
historic spot where he unfurled the banner of a world-wide moral
movement, his ashes mingled with the soil that his devotion has made of
honorable distinction.

Thus, have I attempted to disentangle, gather up and lead in continuous
discourse the scattered threads which I have found in my study of this
neglected subject. If I have rendered more coherent and tangible the
life and achievement of a universally influential philanthropist, I
shall be pleased; but I hope, besides that good result, the
consideration of the memoirs of a man who had a great mission in the
world and who ably and conscientiously discharged it, will serve to
impress upon us a sense of the power of elevated ideas when duly
championed by even one consecrated soul.

_Acknowledgement._

In expressing my appreciation of the assistance which has been rendered
me in the collection of materials for the preparation of this paper, I
would particularly mention Mr. James A. Holden, of Glens Falls, who has
furnished me, from the library of his father, the late Dr. A. W. Holden,
with most valuable matter, some of which could have been obtained from
no other source. I also duly acknowledge my indebtedness to Hon.
Grenville M. Ingalsbe, of Sandy Hill, who interested himself in my
search for data, and feel myself under obligations to the _Schuylerville
Standard_ and to the _Glen Falls Times_ for gratuitously publishing my
request for information.

_Communications._

From the letters relating to the subject in hand which I have received,
I glean the following. I might say that the discrepancy which appears
in the descriptions of Dr. Clark's person may be accounted for by the
different ages and conditions of health in which he is best remembered
by the several Observers:

From Dr. Albert Mott, Cohoes: "The location of the Union Meeting House
was at Reynold's Corners, about four or five hundred feet from the
corner, directly east. The burying ground was north and across the road
from the meeting house."

From Rev. Dr. Jos. E. King, Fort Edward: "In 1858 the old church (Union
Meeting House) was filled, to enjoy the commemorative exercises of the
50th year since the origin of the temperance cause, and I heard Hon.
Judge McKean, of Saratoga, address the congregation. There was singing,
prayer, a poem by Lura Boies, &c."

Statement of Judge Lyman H. Northrup, of Sandy Hill, w<ho remembers Dr.
Clark: "He always carried upon his countenance a mild, genial, pleasant
expression; dressed with neatness, and appeared to be a good sort of
a fellow, and exhibited not at all that asperity which we associate in
our minds with the active reformer."

From William Gary, of Gansevoort, who was intimate with Dr. Clark: "He
had rather small, black eyes, which would be generally considered rather
piercing. His hair was black and very profuse; eye-brows very shaggy.
His height I should put at 5 ft. 10 in., and weight about 170 lbs."

From B. F. Lapham, of Glens Falls: "I was well acquainted with Dr.
B. J. Clark. He lived on the same street we did for many years, and
when he died I helped prepare his body for burial. He was rather
eccentric in many things and very resolute. There never was a meeting
held but he would suggest some resolution, so they nicknamed him
'Resolution Billy.' Dr. Clark's name will be famous through all time as
the originator of the first temperance organization that ever existed.
He was an ardent and efficient laborer all his life."

From Miss Anna Mott, of Glens Falls. Miss Mott is a daughter of James
Mott, who was a co-laborer in the temperance cause with Dr. Clark, and
his neighbor at Clark's Corners: "As I remember Dr. B. J. Clark, he was
a cultured, refined man, with fine sensibility. He had a kind word and
look for every one that was worthy of it. He was of medium height and
size. His hair and eyes were black; his forehead high and broad. His
mouth and chin bespoke firmness. His complexion 'was dark. As I saw Dr.
Clark, he was a very kind, gentlemanly old man, and appreciated every
kindness he received."

From Austin L. Reynolds, of South Glens Falls. Mr. Reynolds knew Dr.
Clark for many years, and assisted him in the temperance work: "Dr.
Clark's name was Billy, instead of William. He was stocky in form, and
weighed about 175 lbs. His height was about 5 ft. 6 in.; complexion
fair; dark hair and eyes, and very heavy eyebrows. He was peculiarly
successful as a physician and as a business man. Was the owner of
several farms and was interested in a paper mill, situated on what is
known as Snoot Kill Creek. Later, he moved to Glens Falls and was
proprietor of a drug store for a number of years in that village. Then
he returned to Clark's Corners with his daughter, Mrs. Alfred C. Farlin
(widow), as housekeeper, and remained at his homestead for several
years. He lost his eyesight and was entirely blind. Then he returned to
Glens Falls, and died in 1866. He left one son and three daughters, all
of whom are now dead."

_A Visit to Clark's Corners._

In order that I might obtain a better understanding of the topography
of the neighborhood, I visited Clark's Corners on a day in August, 1905.
Driving west from Fort Edward, at a distance of three miles I came to
Reynolds' (four) Corners. I was very courteously received by Mr. Austin
L. Reynolds, who gave me full information as to all the historic spots
connected with the Moreau society. Mr. Reynolds is at an advanced age,
more than eighty, but he promptly and clearly communicated to me the
facts herewith set forth.

The roads at Reynolds' Corners run toward the cardinal points, and the
burying ground of the Union Meeting House is at a short distance east
of the corners, as already has been stated by Dr. Mott. The remains of
Dr. Clark were removed from this, the place of their first burial, and
were re-interred at Glens Falls. The site of the Union Meeting House is
unoccupied, the present chapel standing on other ground, some distance
to the west. The Union Meeting House was Dr. Clark's place of worship,
and his pastor, Rev. Lebbeus Armstrong, resided at the parsonage,
one-half mile south of the church and on the west side of the highway.
The cottage which stands on the site of Armstrong's home is now the
residence of Mr. Halsey Chambers. It was here that Dr. Clark came in
the night upon his historic errand.

Clark's (four) Corners are directly south of Reynolds' Corners and two
miles distant. The north and south road is crossed at right angles by
the other. Both of these localities are open country, that of Clark's
Corners having the appearance of fertility and thrift; pleasant homes
and commodious buildings being numerous. Clark's Corners may be
conveniently reached from the village of Gansevoort, on the Delaware
and Hudson Railroad, two miles south.

The site of the Mawney house is at Clark's Corners. It stood on the
northwest corner. Another building has since been erected upon this
ground. Dr. Clark's home stood across the road, on the southwest corner.
The house has disappeared, but the cellar walls stand almost intact.
About forty rods south of the corners and on the east side of the road
is the site of the school-house in which the Moreau society held its
meetings. A dwelling house, the home of Mr. George Haviland, now
occupies that plot of ground.

The sites of the Union Meeting House, parsonage, Mawney house, Dr.
Clark's house, and the school house, should be appropriately marked.




                     THE DEMOCRATIC IDEAL.

                          * * * * *

                      By Hon. Milton Reed.

                          * * * * *


The shrewd saying of the Swedish Chancellor Oxenstiern, _"An nescis, mi
fili, quantilla prudentia regitur orbis?"_--"Dost thou not know, my son,
with how little wisdom the world is governed?" has been substantially
true in every epoch in the world's history. Everything human must needs
be imperfect, and in nothing is imperfection more plainly exhibited
than in the successive schemes of government which men have attempted.
Some have been broad-based and have lasted for what we, in our ordinary
reckoning, call a long period of time. But most of them have been built
on the sand; a few storms, shocks, convulsions, and they have fallen.
Men have generally made but sorry work in trying to govern each other.
The individual may govern himself after a fashion; but to govern wisely
another man, or, still harder, great masses of men, even where there
has been community of public interests, of language, religion and
custom--aye, there has been the rub! Human history has often been called
a great tragedy; but no tragic element is more ghastly or more
overwhelming than the catastrophes in which most governments have
collapsed. Ambitious attempts at world-power, the most splendid
combinations to group nations into a civic unity, have tottered to their
fall, as surely as the little systems which have had their day and
ceased to be,--shifting, fleeting, impotent.

It is not difficult to see why this has been so. Social life is only
one phase of the great organic life of the species; one scene of the
human drama of which the earth has been "the wide and universal
theatre." Change, transition, development, birth, growth, death, are
universal elements in the cosmic order. Of the slow but inevitable
changes in the physical history of the earth, Tennyson says:

    "There rolls the deep, where stood the tree;
           O earth, what changes hast thou seen;
    There where the long street roars, has been
           The stillness of the central sea.
    The hills are shadows, and they flow
           From form to form; and nothing stands;
    They melt like mists, the solid lands;
           Like clouds they shape themselves and go."

If this mutation be true of organic changes in the physical earth,
working through immeasurable æons, it is even as dramatically true of
organized social life.

We are learning to take a new view of history. It is no longer regarded
as a collection of isolated facts. Veracious history is a record of the
orderly progression of events, developed by evolutionary processes.
There is in it no break, no hiatus, excepting such temporary interruptions
as come from what Emerson calls "the famous might that lurks in reaction
recoil." Thus we learn the _rationale_ of the events transcribed to the
historical page. Until science lifted the curtain on "the eternal
landscape of the past," man knew little of himself or of his kind. It
is only with the enlarged vision that has come to us from the researches
of the ethnologist, biologist, anthropologist, sociologist, that we have
begun to learn what a creature man really is; to study his inner nature;
to get at the deeper meanings of the history of the race.

Once the study of history was thought to be hardly more than learning
a catalogue of royal dynasties; the names of famous generals and
statesmen; of battles lost and won; of court intrigues; of the
vicissitudes of kingdoms; of the prowess of pioneers and adventurers;
of "hair-breadth 'scapes i' the imminent deadly breach;" of the pride,
pomp and circumstance of glorious war! Such incidents have not lost,
and never can lose, their interest. They are an integral part of the
human document and must always be studied. When draped with myth and
legend they minister to "the vision and faculty divine" of the poet;
they visualize the possibilities of human courage; stimulate the
affections; answer to the eternal cravings of the imagination. But they
are only the phenomena of the real history of the race. Life is broader,
larger, deeper, richer, fuller, than a mere transcript of
happenings--externals, results--important as they are. We must get at
the causes, motives, inter-relations, the hidden causes from which
events flow, before we can unravel the web in which they are woven, and
thus interpret them.

The core of history is the element which the Greeks called
_toanthropeion;_ called by a modern poet "the bases of life;" called
by us average folk, Human Nature. It is as constant a quality as
anything can be in our moving life. We may not be able to agree with
Middleton, who says in his life of Cicero, "Human nature has ever been
the same in all ages and nations;" but it is probably true that nothing
has changed less in primal qualities than the bases of life. Empires
have perished, civilizations vanished, governments have rotted,
languages, territorial lines, seeming sit-fast institutions, have passed
into nothingness; but the human element has stood the shock of ages.
"The one remains; the many change and pass," said Shelley. Man-character,
man-life, is the one element, the colors of which seem fast. It is,
like all other things, subject to evolutionary changes; it may be
differentiated into a thousand forms; but the bases of life have never
shifted.

Human history is a great tragedy indeed. But, like all tragedies, it
has its spiritualizing, sanctifying, ennobling side. When the drama of
the ages is unrolled we see much to make us weep; but we also see
immeasurably more to make us glory that we are a part of the race. While
its history reeks with blood, carnage, oppression, injustice, cruelty,
in which sad facts the pessimist hears "the eternal note of sadness,"
and unwisely rushes into a denial of the moral order--it has its
sun-bright triumphs of rectitude, and the illuminating picture of the
steady and glorious advance of mankind from brutishness into an orderly,
moralized life.

Readers of Matthew Arnold--an author whose intellectual vision was
great, and whose style is one of the literary ornaments of the last
century--will recall how he was taken with what he called "Mr. Darwin's
famous proposition" that "our ancestor was a hairy quadruped, furnished
with a tail and pointed ears, probably arboreal in his habits." Mr.
Arnold, the apostle of culture, played again and again around this
sonorous phrase. Far be it from me to enter upon any discussion of the
Darwinian hypothesis of the genesis of the human race. On this large
theme the last word has not been said. Knowledge must grow from more to
more before we can posit anything definite on a subject veiled at
present in inscrutable mystery. But, in its essence, the evolutionary
theory has soaked into our modern thought. The literature and the
progressive teaching of our latter day are drenched with it. It
certainly can be said of it, that it explains many things which have
heretofore seemed inexplicable, and marks a great advance in popular
intelligence. But the most ambitious generalization is only a temporary
expedient. Fact will merge in fact; law will melt into a larger law; one
deep of knowledge will call unto another deep; much that the proudest
scientist of our day calls knowledge will vanish away; many theories now
popular will be dissected and pruned and will be found to be "such
stuff as dreams are made on," before the most enlightened humanity of
a future age catches any one phase of nature in its snare and compresses
it into rigid laws.

Nevertheless, the ancestor of man was brutish, and his descendants are
where they are. Whether or not primeval man was the rather unpicturesque
creature described by Mr. Arnold, he was the norm from which has come
"the heir of all the ages."

From the cave-dweller, the aboriginal savage, have been evolved Homer,
Plato, Aristotle, Shakespeare, Spinoza, Milton, Dante, Newton,
Gladstone, Pascal, La Place, Lincoln, Emerson, Channing, Martineau,
Thomas a' Kempis, Phillips Brooks, Darwin and Herbert Spencer. How
magnificent the ascent! How glorious the progression!

        Man, once the companion of the
                        Dragons of the prime
        That tare each other in their slime,

has flowered into an intellectual, reasoning, moral being--"how infinite
in faculty; in form and moving how express and admirable; in action how
like an angel; in apprehension how like a god."

All this progress, however, has cost its price. Step by step has the
race advanced from primeval animalism to its present status. It has
walked with bleeding feet. The Divine economy works in many ways. One
of its ways is to educate, stimulate and spiritualize through antagonism
and pain. All faculties, functions and potencies must be worked in order
that they may grow. Atrophy, decay, death, are the resultant of non-use.
The sullen earth was to be fertilized by man's sweat and blood before
it would yield any increase beyond its spontaneous productions. Conflict
with the elements, conquest over the lower organisms; ages of toilsome
effort, were to come before man was able "to dress the earth and keep
it." Out of the iron necessities of his being came initial progress; and
progress once begun has never ceased.

The great factor in progress was Co-operation. One man alone can do
little. The moment human necessities were recognized, the law of
association applied. Man needed man. The family group, the clan, the
tribe, the town, the city, the state, the nation, have been stages in
the process of closer and closer co-operation.

Confederation, association, combination, require adjustment, compromise,
regulation. Hence the germ of government. To live together each man must
give way in something to the other. Man is gregarious; he is naturally
social; instinctively he availed himself of the companionship of other
men. The social status, the _foedera generis humani,_ were slowly
evolved from the increasing demands of man upon man; they were not the
result of bargaining. What a magnificent drama; the world, the theatre;
all mankind, emerging from primitive ignorance, the actors. How many or
how long the acts were, we know not; but through "that duration which
maketh pyramids pillars of snow, and all that's past a moment," the
wonderful scenes moved on. Out of the strong came forth sweetness. From
brute selfishness, from animal passion, came love. Slowly the central
idea was reached, and, in the sublime language of the Scripture, man
became a living soul! and his body became the temple of the Holy Spirit;
his consciousness a part of the infinite consciousness; his personality
a world-copy of a divine universe. Reason, conscious, love, were his
dower.

The curtain has not yet fallen, and will never fall, upon the last act.
We live in a world which is always in process. Nature's genesis is
unceasing. "Without haste, without rest," her creative and re-creative
processes are always operating.

When one undertakes to talk about government he is drawn instinctively
to some historic models. As thinking persons realized in every age the
insufficiency of contemporaneous governments, there has scarcely been
a time when the academic reformer was wanting. Certain ages may have
lacked poets--ours is said to be unpoetic and prosaic, and to await its
poet-prophet--but the academic idealist who could say, Go to, let us
build a government, has been generally at hand. The dreams of the
illuminated ones who have sought, by rule and theory, to make the
crooked straight, to convert mankind into angels by legal enactment, are
among the most pleasing, if abortive, works of genius. Some of the
noblest spirits of the race have made this illusory effort.

Plato, that splendid genius, in whose brain was wrapped the subtle
essence which gave to Hellenic art and literature their incomparable
charm, found a congenial theme in painting his ideal Republic. It was a
beautiful attempt to develop a state based upon Socratic thought. He
had sat at the feet of the great master of dialectic, and, with the hot
enthusiasm of a reformer, painted a picture of the idealized man, living
in a community where the supremacy of the intellect was to be recognized
as authoritative, where the individual and family were to be absorbed in
the state, and where a lofty communism was to be established, and in
which Virtue, Truth, Beauty and Goodness were to be sovereign entities.
But the Platonic Communism was one where equality and humanity were left
out. Plato could not escape the Time-Spirit. The Platonic Republic was
his Athens idealized. "The very age and body of the time" gave to the
philosopher's dream its form and pressure. The actual Hellenic Republics
were not based upon the rights of man; a few ruled over a nation of
proletariats and slaves. When they came into rough contact with the
vigorous Roman civilization, they were shattered like iridescent
bubbles. Even so wise-browed a philosopher as Plato failed to recognize
sufficiently the human element. His imaginary republic was air-drawn,
fantastic; a philosophic dream, with little grasp on life's realities.
It was not broad-based. It did not recognize sufficiently the law of
growth. It had no place in our work-a-day world. It interests us now
chiefly from the superb literary skill with which it was constructed;
a prodigy of intellect and art. But it was not the Democratic Ideal.

Aristotle--that other imperial Greek genius, whom Dante called "the
master of those that know;" who had less imaginative mysticism than
Plato, but a stronger hold on realities; whose fertile genius touched
almost every subject that came within ancient thought--tried his hand
also in political science. As a forerunner of modern science, as a
profound thinker, he has been a tremendous factor in the intellectual
life of the world. But the Time-Spirit held him in its grasp even more
firmly than it did Plato. His theory of the state avoided, indeed, the
absurdity of communism, but recognized slavery and the subjection of
women. Like many of the modern Socialists, he denounced the taking of
interest for the use of money. Such political theories must needs be
ineffective. They ignore the equitable basis of society and indicate a
short-sightedness that is amazing, in any era when thrift, industry and
property rights are elements in the life of a state--as they were then
and are now. Among the school-men of the middle ages, Aristotle was
regnant. His hand has not yet been lifted from our university life. Vast
literatures had their birth in his philosophic system. His political
theories have become only academic. The world had no use for them. He
was far from the Democratic Ideal. No one will deny that Plato and
Aristotle are among those

        Dead but sceptered sovereigns who still rule
            Our spirits from their urns.

Their sovereignty does not come, however, from their contributions to
political science.

I wish we might dwell longer on these dreams of philosophers. They offer
a field for delightful study. We linger lovingly with them. How tenderly
we read of the pious dream of St. Augustine for the _Civitas Dei,_ the
City of God; of a new civic order rising on the crumbling ruins of the
Roman Empire. The advent of Christianity had brought into the world the
auroral flush of a new moral order, a quickened sense of social duty;
a warmth of human brotherhood; a heightened conscience. The church was
rising like a splendid mausoleum over the sepulcher of its founder. The
world thrilled with an emotion never felt before. What more natural than
that a new social order should arise, into which should be gathered all
classes of men, glorified, purified, ready for the Advent of the
conquering Galilean, which was then almost universally anticipated. But
alas, the Augustine City of God has never come. It will never come as
a political organization. Its home is in the human heart. It is not Lo
here or Lo there; and cometh not with observation. The City of God, the
City of Light, will come when ethical conscience is so quickened that
law becomes love, and love, law.

We might go on and say more of the exalted dreamers who from age to age
have attempted the impossible task of idealizing the State by geometric
rules or fantastic theories. Perhaps the two most notable--at least
until the recent expansion of Socialistic propaganda--were the "Utopia"
of Sir Thomas More and the "New Atlantis" of Lord Bacon. We must dismiss
them by naming them. They lacked the Democratic Ideal. Yet, among the
many gems which Lord Bacon has given to our language, the short terse
phrases, which make him one of the most quotable of authors, is one
memorable line in his "New Atlantis." He said of the Father of Solomon's
house, "He had an aspect as though he pitied men." Benignant and blessed
thought.

One, however, of the world's intellectual sovereigns, who lived in the
uplands of the imagination, who traversed the gamut of human experience,
and of whom we may say, if of any man, "He saw life steadily and saw it
whole;" in dealing with the relation of man to the civic order, never
indulged in illusion--William Shakespeare. It has often been said to his
reproach that his dramas are not instinct with the spirit of liberty;
that he believed in the right of the strongest to rule; that he deified
strength and power; that he showed contempt for the mob and
"rabblement." We cannot go into a discussion of this interesting matter.
We must remember, however--a fact that is often overlooked--that
Shakespeare was not only most extraordinary as a poet, but that he was
one of the profoundest moralists that the world has known. His genius
was supremely sane, calm, judicial, healthy. He painted men and women as
they are. His nobly poised intellect and acute vision saw the realities
of life. He knew the exalted possibilities of spiritual excellence to
which humanity can rise, and the abysmal depths into which it can sink.
He recognized the fact that society is swayed by selfish interests
oftener than by a devotion to high ideals. He read history with a
microscopic eye. Dowden, one of his most acute interpreters, says,
"Shakespeare studied and represented in his art the world which lay
before him. If he prophesied the future it was not in the ordinary
manner of prophets, but only by completely embodying the present, in
which the future was concerned." In his day the mob had not learned
self-control, moral dignity, a discrimination between the transient and
permanent in politics. Has it learned this lesson yet? His immortal
works exhibit no world-weariness, no _blasé_ pessimism. He saw the
eternal relations of cause and effect. He admired the intellectual
powers and tremendous personalities of great historical characters like
Julius Caesar, Coriolanus and Richard III, but he also saw their
limitations, moral delinquencies and weaknesses which led inevitably to
the snares into which they fell. He had a profound sympathy with human
life; he was a lover of rectitude, nobility of character, self-sacrifice,
manliness, womanliness. Above all, he taught the everlasting and all
embracing equity with which the universe throbs. In the end, no cheat,
no lie, no injustice prospers. The sinner is a self-punisher. At last,
by action of the inexorable, inescapable moral order, "the wheel is come
full circle;" evil is strangled.

To such an equitable intellect, the idea of a Platonic Republic or
Bacon's "New Atlantis" would be as impossible as impracticable. He knew
too well the plasticity of human adjustments, the shifting, fleeting,
rising and sinking of the social order, the possibilities of disturbance
and recoil that ever lie at the core of a placid and smug order of
things, to attempt any speculative panacea for the evils of society. He
laid open the tap-root of all institutions and happenings--the human
heart.

All this is a digression, but a strange fascination invests the name of
Shakespeare. Thackeray said of the insanity of Dean Swift, "So great a
man he seems to me, that thinking of him is like thinking of an empire
falling." So when we talk of Shakespeare, it almost seems that we are
talking of collective humanity. He was no economic idealist; he built
no systems of philosophy of law. He understood humanity. In spite of all
criticisms, his view of life followed more closely than the pretentious
systems of closet philosophers, the gleam of the Democratic
Ideal--progression and growth.

We may consider government, or rather the social organism, as a working
basis on which men manage to live together, receiving from and giving
to each other protection for life and property. There is a noble phrase
of Edmund Burke--he was a master of noble phrases--"moulding together
the great mysterious incorporation of the human race." In order to have
any basis on which human beings could live together, there must have
been a moulding together of immense diversities. Human nature and human
society are tremendously complex. No two persons are just alike; and
each personality is a bundle of contradictory qualities. Government
rests upon two forces, sovereignty and obedience. Somebody must command;
somebody must obey. Each of these forces is powerfully operative in most
men. The love of authority, dominion, power, the will to make another
to do our bidding, is deeply planted in the human nature. Nothing is
more intoxicating, more enjoyable, than power. On the other hand, the
principle of submission, compliance, obedience, is a stronger force than
most of us imagine.

We need not analyze the genesis of the force that has kept men under
government. There are almost as many theories as there are inquirers.
It has been said to be compulsion, physical force by one school of
writers; by another school, agreement, a contractual relation. For many
generations a popular theory was that authority is given to rulers by
God, or the eternal reason; this theory cost King Charles I his head.
Another school contends that it rests upon some psychological principle
inherent in human character. There may be a vast practical difference
in results, if some of these theories are pushed to the limit; but that
there must be sovereignty in the state, however derived, and obedience
to such sovereignty by the citizen, is plain, if anarchy is to be
escaped.

If we may use the phrase which Herbert Spencer coined and popularized,
men naturally follow "the line of the least resistance;" and to obey,
except where obedience is counter to self-interest, or where, in the
more highly specialized civilizations, it would violate rights, honor,
duty, is generally the easy course. The Castle of Indolence seldom has
any vacant rooms. The exceptionally strong will, the "monarch mind," is
rare. The principle of obedience to authority is strongly developed in
the race, especially among nations where the supreme power is supposed
to rest upon some religious sanction, as was the case with European
governments until recent years, and as is the case with most Oriental
nations to-day.

We live in an age of intense specialization. A few generations ago we
heard of men of universal knowledge. Not so now. The volume of knowledge
has become so vast that no man, even the wisest, can do more than to
touch its skirts. In no department of study is the trend of specialization
more active than in the interpretation of history. In the hunt after the
subtle causes that have lurked in the bosom of society and have flamed
into consuming fire, from time to time, the patient historian, the student
of sociology, has grouped tendencies, impulses, transitional waves of
popular feeling, into generalizations. Especially is this statement true
of German scholars, with whom specialization has often been reduced to
infinitesimal analysis. Thus one school of writers dwells upon the
economic interpretation of history. In their view, most popular upheavals
have been synchronous with the poverty of the masses. It is when the
people have been ground into hunger by excessive taxation and public
extravagance that they have risen, like the blind giant pulling down the
temple of Gaza, and swept away dynasties and royal pageantry. Such, it is
said, was the mainspring of the French Revolution--one of the most
dramatic events in history. Undoubtedly the economic problem has always
been, and always will be, a powerful agent in the genesis of history.

Others give us the religious interpretation of history. They tell us of
those epochs when great masses of men, impelled by a wave of religious
enthusiasm, moved to fiery zeal, their imaginations touched, their moral
sense deeply stirred, have become knights of the faith, missionaries
armed with fire and sword; the scourges of God. Such causes impelled the
Saracenic invasion of Africa and Europe, and the Crusades.

Other historians have studied the great migratory movements that have
swept vast bodies of men away from their native environments, and
precipitated new elements into history. Such were the migrations of the
tribes of Northern Europe, and of the Asiatic hordes, which were a
powerful element in the overturn of the Roman Empire.

In late years there has been an increasing interest in the biographies
of the great men who have moved the world. No view of history is more
interesting than this study of personalities. It has sometimes been
pushed to an absurd extent, in the attempt to reverse historical
verdicts, to rehabilitate tarnished reputations, and in the exaggeration
of hero-worship. The relation of great men to their times has been a
fascinating theme for the historian to dwell upon in every age.

All these, and many more inquiries, are worthy of the most painstaking
study. We cannot know too much about them. They are all a part of "the
moulding together the great mysterious incorporation of the human race."
But the moral lesson of history is larger than any exceptional episodes.

Whatever way governments began, they have been, they are, and they will
be, until human nature and human needs undergo a tremendous
transformation. As has been said, stable governments have been rare.
Some of the forces of modern civilization may make the crystallization
of society into localized governments possibly more unstable than ever.
In favor of the permanence of any existing order however, there has
always been one conserving factor--habit. Prof. J. M. Baldwin in his
instructive work, "Mutual Development," calls authority "that most
tremendous thing in our moral environment," and obedience "that most
magnificent thing in our moral equipment." Psychologists also tell us
that habit, one of the phenomena of consolidation, indicates downward
growth. With the race, as with the individual, habit, or what Bagehot
calls "the solid cake of custom," has been one of the impediments to
progress. Yet, governments have progressed from generation to generation.
There has always been enough of the _vis viva_ to leaven social heredity.
Little by little, that part of the race, whose progress has not been
arrested, has outgrown the superstition of a divinity that "doth hedge
a king." More and more the functions once held by king-craft have been
grasped by the people; the race steadily moving toward the ideal
self-government. Every agency that made for enlightenment and uplift led
to this goal. The great social heritage of the past has been the
evolution of law and order. There has been through the ages a sweep of
collective forces that has taught men self-control, and has constantly
raised the ethical standard. A _damnosa hereditas_ of ferocity,
selfishness, and brutality, has been a part of the heritage; but there
has been enough of salt in the general character to rescue liberty and
justice even in the most reactionary times.

The Democratic Ideal is based upon the three great principles of liberty,
equality of rights and opportunities, and justice. In spite of indolence,
apathy, inveterate conservatism, superstition, ignorance, out of these
principles has flashed the day-star which the path of civilization has
followed.

Liberty is no longer a vagrant. "The love of liberty is simply the
instinct in man for expansion," says Matthew Arnold. That instinct is
always operative.

Yet liberty is not an entity; it is only a state. Unregulated,
discharged from the ethical obligations which we owe to each other,
liberty is lost in anarchy, which is only consummate egoism.

"The most aggravated forms of tyranny and slavery arise out of the most
extreme form of liberty," says Plato.

"If you enthrone it (liberty) alone as means and end, it will lead
society first to anarchy, afterward to the despotism which you fear,"
says Mazzini, one of the shining liberators of the last century.

"If every man has all the liberty he wants, no man has any liberty,"
says Goethe.

In other words, the rights of man must be articulated with the duties
of man. Freedom cannot exist without order. They are concentric. Without
the recognition of the sanctity of obligation to others, the age-long
aspiration of the race for liberty is an impotent endeavor. It would
have plunged eyeless through the cycles in which it has worked its way
into civilization, had it not been that reciprocity, mutual help, is a
basis of its being. Mankind can never be absolved from this eternal law.

We are now told that a reaction has set in against democracy; that the
results of the democratic ideal, so far as attained, are a failure; that
the tyranny of the mob has succeeded to that of the single despot; that
in the most liberal governments of the world, even in the United States
and England, where the problem of self-government has been most
thoroughly worked out, the people are forgetting their high ideals and
are using their collective power for base and ignoble purposes; that the
moral tone of the government is lowered; that an insane greed for wealth
has infected the nations: that there is a blunting of moral responsibility
and a cheapening of national aims.

This great indictment comes from intense lovers of liberty and the
truest friends of democracy.

Herbert Spencer put himself on record, in his last years, as fearing
that the insolent imperialism of the times and the power of reactionary
forces would lead to the re-barbarization of society.

John Stuart Mill said, "The natural tendency of representative
government, as of modern civilization generally, is towards collective
mediocrity."

John Morley tells us that "outside natural science and the material
arts, the lamp burns low;" he complains that nations are listening to
"the siren song of ambition;" that while there is an immense increase
in material prosperity, there is an immense decline of sincerity of
spiritual interest. He also speaks of "the high and dry optimism which
presents the existing order of things as the noblest possible, and the
undisturbed sway of the majority as the way of salvation."

If you care to read the summing up of the tremendous indictment against
modern democracy, you will find it in Hobhouse's striking work,
"Democracy and Reaction." This thoughtful author claims that the new
imperialism, which has become an obsession among the great powers of the
world within a few years, "stands not for widened and ennobled sense of
national responsibility, but for a hard assertion of racial supremacy
and national force;" and pleads for "the unfolding of an order of ideas
by which life is stimulated and guided," and for "a reasoned conception
of social justice."

Unfortunately there is too much truth in all these utterances. These are
not "wild and whirling words." We need not to be told of the evils of
our times. We hardly dare turn the searchlight upon our own civilization,
for we know how much of shame it reveals. We need no candid, sympathetic,
and enlightened critic like James Bryce, to tell us where our republic
is weak, in spite of our Titanic power, immense prosperity, roaring
trade, restless energy, chartered freedom. We know that, in many
respects, "the times are out of joint." The sordid and incapable
governments of many of our large cities; the venality among those to
whom great public trusts have been committed; the recrudescence of race
prejudice; the colossal fortunes heaped up by shrewd manipulations of
laws, which have been twisted from their original intent, and by
un-ethical methods; mob-violence, lynch law, the ever-widening hostility
between the employers of labor and the wage-earner; so much of what
Jeremy Taylor called "prosperous iniquity;" the blare of jingoism, the
coarser and grosser forms which athletics have assumed, even among young
men who are students at our universities--in the sublime words of Milton,
"beholding the bright countenance of truth in the quiet and still air of
delightful studies;" the hatred felt by the poor towards the rich, and
the disdain felt by the rich for the poor; all these and many other
evils, indeed, exist. Yes, the times are out of joint. But they have
always been out of joint.

These evils are not the result of popular government; they are incident
to our transitional civilization. They have always existed, probably in
a grosser form than to-day. Would a return to monarchical government
better things?

Possibly we have anticipated too much of organized democracy. It is
still aiming for its ideal. As we have said of liberty, democracy is not
a finality; it is only a status by which public opinion for the time
being can be most effectively expressed in government.

The reaction, if there be one, is moral and spiritual, rather than
political. The American people have been densely absorbed in the
material development of our wonderful country. The task has been a huge
one. So far as it has been completed, it has been magnificently done.
If we have seemed to worship the Golden Calf, we may find in due time
how unsatisfying wealth-gathering is. If at present the consumer seems
to be throttled by the trust-magnate, on one hand, and the labor-trust
on the other, each monopoly working to the common purpose of keeping up
prices to be paid by the consumer, the remedy is in his own hands. It
is not in riot, revolution, anarchy, by frenzied declamations against
those who are doing only what nine-tenths of the human kind would do for
themselves, if opportunity were afforded; but by using the power which
free government gives to the people, and correcting the evils by what
Gladstone called "the resources of civilization." Out of the roar and
brawl of the times will come a sharp examination into the system of laws
which permit the accumulation of stupendous fortunes by the "cornering"
of a commodity which human necessities require; by shrewd manipulations
of tariff, patent, corporation and transportation laws, and by other
anti-social agencies. The people, the consumers, create all the
legislatures, appoint all the judges, execute all the laws. The fortunes
of the rich exist because the people so allow. "A breath can make them,
and a breath has made," All the creature-comforts, all culture-conquests
have been evolved by the people. It is not by a reversion to Asiatic
paternalism, or by the assumption of all industrial agencies by the
State, which is the present aim of Socialism, or by a retreat into
aboriginal lawlessness and intense selfishness--which Anarchism would
result in--that social relief will come.

The American people will work these problems out and will work them out
right. "The glory of the sum of things" does not come with a flash.
There are always remedial agencies actively at work. They have saved
civilization again and again, when the economic order seemed about to
break down, when effete governments have fallen in cataclysms which have
almost wrecked the social fabric; when mankind seemed to be wandering in
a wilderness of ignorance, doubt and despair. Human nature is a tough,
elastic, expansive article. If common sense is a product of the ages,
so is what is termed "the corporate morality" of the race. Everything
makes for what Burke said he loved, "a manly, moral, regulated liberty."

It is hard for us to learn the imperative lesson that everything, except
moral and spiritual elements, is only transitional. We are too much
inclined to think that any existing status has come to stay. Not so.
While evils do not cure themselves, evil is only the negative of the
good. The human agent, with his enormous plasticity, constantly widening
intelligence and marvelous capacity for growth, is always the instrument,
guided by the unseen powers, that make for rectitude, to strike at wrong.
There is always more good than evil; otherwise society could not hold
together. If progress has been slow, it is because it ought to be slow.

In our economic order, the trust, the trade-unions--often in our day
instruments of danger--are factors that in the end will tend to good.
They are a part of the great synthetic movement which is unifying the
race. They will lead to a greater coherency in our industrial life. They
are educational in their tendency. Great fortunes, dizzying wealth, have
their evil side; they are monstrous creations which have been created by
a union of constructive talent with the mechanical inventions of the
age. By-and-by, their possessors may see that they are but ashes;
intolerable burdens; gilded rubbish. But in our present stage, there is
need of wealthy men. They have important uses. Business has heretofore
been too largely directed to the acquisition of wealth. This grossness
will be succeeded by an era of equitable distribution.

We must remember that the very idea of property implies more or less of
selfishness. An ideally altruistic man could not acquire property beyond
his immediate needs. What view of it may be taken in remote future ages
we know not. At present, however, it is absolutely necessary. To protect
life and liberty, government must protect property. Undoubtedly the
possession of enormous wealth, thereby generating sharp distinctions
between classes, is inimical to the Democratic Ideal. Democracy
pre-supposes a tolerable measure of equality in possessions, and an
absence of class privilege. The people must perhaps re-cast much of
their legislation, to make sure that their public franchises and natural
monopolies are not exploited by the few at the expense of the many. In
a country where the press is allowed unlimited freedom, and where every
man has a share in the government, where laws are flexible and easily
modified, there should be little difficulty in curbing the pretensions
of insolent wealth and protecting the people from lawlessness.

Possibly in the Socialistic movement, which is now academic, crude and
unscientific, and which, in its present stage, offers as a healing balm
for industrial evils only the paralysis of state despotism, there may be
a curative germ. Certainly, at its base, is the principle of human
brotherhood, co-operation and a lofty altruism. It is now in antagonism
with the Democratic Ideal; ultimately it may be resolved into an
auxiliary in purging society from some of the evils with which it is
infected.

If we live in an era of greed and graft, we also live in an era of
enormous goodness, unparalleled philanthropy, increasing intelligence
and advancing ethical standards. Can there be any doubt which forces
will win?

The Democratic Ideal, towards which all nations are drifting by the
inexorable sweep of ethical forces, still shines before the American
people. Whatever is rotten, vulgar, base, corrupt, in our body politic
will be eliminated by the same law of progress, moral, physical, social,
spiritual, which has brought the race to its present transitional status.
Lincoln's ideal of a government of the people, for the people, by the
people, will not perish from the earth. Up from the scum and reek of
corruption--unless the ancient power of conscience and intellect are
dead; and they are not dead, but live in deathless vigor--will spring a
new growth of justice, liberty, love.

But the nation must not lose it vision; that incommunicable quality that
leads to the light. "Where there is no vision, the people perish."

The past is behind us, with all its solemn monitions. The future beckons
us to the shining uplands of limitless progress. The ascent is not easy,
but it must and will be made.




                 LETTERS FROM GEORGE WASHINGTON.

                          * * * * *


                         Head Quarters, West Point, July 29th, 1779.

Dr. Sir,

I have been duly favored with your letter of the 10th, the contents of
which are of so serious a nature, with respect to the Quarter Masters
and Commissary's department, that I thought it my duty to communicate
them to General Greene and Col. Wadsworth.

... If there has been neglect in either department, the delinquents
must be responsible to the public and these Gentlemen ought to be
acquainted with what has been alleged. . . .

I cannot but repeat my entreaties, that you will hasten your operation
with all possible dispatch; and that you will disencumber yourself of
every article of baggage and stores which is not necessary to the
expedition. Not only its success but its execution at all depends on
this. 'Tis a kind of service in which both officers and men must expect
to dispense with conveniences and endure hardships. . . . They must not
and I trust will not expect to carry the same apparatus which is
customary in other operations. I am persuaded that if you do not lighten
yourself to the greatest possible degree, you will not only eminently
hazard a defeat, but you will never be able to penetrate any distance
into the Indian Country. . . . The greater part of your provisions will
be consumed in preparation, and the remainder in the first stages of a
tedious and laborious march.

General Clinton in a letter to the Governor of the 6th instant mentioned
his arrival at the south end of Otsego Lake where he was waiting your
orders. . . .

Enclosed I transmit you extracts of two letters of the 7th and 27th
instant from Major-General Schuyler with interesting intelligence.

                                  I am with great regard
                                    Dr. Sir
                                        Yr. Most Obet. Servant
                                             Ge. Washington

 This will be accompanied
 by Commissions for the four
 New York Regiments and
 the 4th Pennsylvania. . . .
 in three packages. . . .

Col. Broadhead has informed me that he has a prospect of undertaking an
expedition against the Mingoes with the aid of some of the friendly
Indians; I have encouraged him by all means to do it, if practicable;
should it take place, it will be an useful diversion in your favor as
he will approach pretty near to your left flank. . . .

                          * * * * *


                                    Head Quarters West
                                    Point August 1st, 1779.
Dr. Sir,

Brandt at the head of a party of whites & Indians said to have amounted
to eighty or ninety men has lately made an incursion into the Minisinks
and cut off a party of fifty or sixty of our militia. It is reported
that Brandt himself was either killed or wounded in the action. . . .
By a fellow belonging to this party, who has fallen into our hands, as
he pretends voluntarily (but is suspected to have mistaken his way.)
I am informed that the party came from Chemung in quest of provisions
of which the savages are in great want. He says their deficiency in this
respect is so great that they are obliged to keep themselves in a
desperate state; and when they collect will not be able to remain long
together. He gives the following account of their strength, movements
& designs. . . . That the whole force they will be able to assemble will
not exceed fifteen hundred fighting men whites and Indians, which they
themselves conceive will be equal to double the number of our men in
the woods. . . . That Butler with a party of both sorts was at
Conosadago in number 3 or 400. . . . That at Chemung and the adjacent
town were two or three hundred warriors. . . . That Chemung was appointed
as the place of rendezvous where or in the neighborhood the Indians
intended to give you battle, after which if they were unsuccessful they
intended to retire towards Niagara harassing your march as much as
possible with small parties and by ambuscades. . . . That some of the
towns had sent off their old men & women, others more confident and
discrediting that there was an army coming against them, had still kept
them at home. . . . That no reinforcement had yet come from Canada; but
that Brandt who was lately arrived from thence assured the Indians there
was one coming after him. . . . The principal strength of the Indians is
in the Genesee towns. . . .

You will give as much credit to this account as you think proper and in
proportion to its conformity to your other intelligence. The informant
is a deserter from Cortlandt's Regiment who says he was carried off by
force to the Indians and took the present opportunity of leaving
them. . . . He appears not to be destitute of shrewdness and as his
apprehensions were pretty strong I am inclined to think as far as his
knowledge extended he was sincere. . . .

In my last I forgot to inform you that on the 15th instant at night
Brigadier Gen. Wayne with the Light Infantry took Stony point by
assault. The whole garrison consisting of about 600 men with Col.
Johnson commanding officer, fifteen pieces of cannon of different sizes
& quantity of stores fell into our hands. Our loss in killed & wounded
was less than an hundred, of which not above thirty will be finally
lost to the service. . . . General Wayne received a wound in the
head. . . . This affair does great honor to our troops who entered the
works at the point of the bayonet, scarcely firing a gun. The post you
may recollect was extremely formidable by nature and strongly
fortified. . . . The enemy, it is said, supposed it capable of defying
our whole force. The opposite point had it not been for some unavoidable
accidents would probably also fallen into our hands. . . . The enemy from
these had time to come to its relief and have since repossessed Stony
Point, which we evacuated and destroyed.

                                  I am with great regard
                                     Dr. Sr.
 (Duplicate)                             Yr. Obet. servt
                                             G Washington

ps. Enclosed is a duplicate of mine of the 29th with its enclosures lest
there should be a miscarriage.

                          * * * * *


                              Head Quarters West Point 3d Sept. 1779.
Dear Sir,

I was made very happy to find, by yours of the 25th ulto that your
junction with General Clinton would take place on the next day, and that
no opposition had been given him on the passage down the River. Colonel
Pauling, not having been able to reach Anagarga at the appointed time,
and upon his arrival there, finding that General Clinton had passed by,
has returned to the settlements with the men under his command--who
were about 200. But as your junction has been effected with scarce any
loss, I hope this small demonstration of force will not be felt in your
operations.

I yesterday rec a letter of the 31st July from Colo. Broadhead at Fort
Pitt, from which the enclosed is an extract. By this you will perceive,
that he intended to begin his march towards the Seneca Country on the
7th or 8th of last month, and will also see his reasons for setting out
so early.

On the receipt of your letter of the 13th ulto. I immediately desired
the Commissary General to form a magazine for your future supply at
some safe and convenient place in your rear, and on receiving that of
the 20th I repeated the order, and directed him to make Wyoming the
place of deposit. By the enclosed extracts from Colo. Wadsworth and Mr.
Blaine you will find that matters are in forwardness for that purpose.

I have the pleasure to inform you that Spain has at length taken a
decisive part. In the enclosed paper, you will find his Manifesto
delivered to the Court of Great Britain on the 16th June last, with the
message of the King to Parliament thereupon.

It is to be hoped this formidable junction of the House of Bourbon will
not fail of establishing the Independence of America in a short
time. . . .

                                  I am Dear Sir
                                       Your most obt. Sert.
                                          Ge. Washington



                     LETTER OF PH. SCHUYLER.

                          * * * * *


                                       Albany, April 29th, 1779.
Dear Sir:

Your Excellency's Favor of the 24th Instant, I had the Honor to receive
on the 27th.

Yesterday I had a conference with General Clinton and General Ten Broeck
on the subject matter of your letter. The latter has promised to make
use of every exertion to raise the quota his Brigade is to furnish. He
will advise you of the difficulties he has to encounter and I really
fear if he should be able to procure the whole number at least (which I
have not much reason to believe he will) so much time will elapse that
the troops now to the Northward, will be drawn away before any part are
sent to take the posts they now occupy, except Captain Stockwell's
Company.

General Clinton proposes to send such men of the corps now in this
Quarter, as may be unfit for the active service intended to be
prosecuted, to the Block House he has built at Sacandaga, and if there
should be more such men than what are necessary for that post, he will
order them to the Northward.

If General Washington prosecutes the operations he at present meditates
against the savages, the Western Frontiers will be in perfect security.
I conceive it will therefore only be necessary to employ what Force you
may have for the Defense of the Northern Frontiers of this County and
that of Tryon.

Part of Warner's Regiment is now at Rutland. About one hundred men will
be sufficient at Skenesborough; twenty-five men at Fort Edward and the
Remainder I should advise to be stationed at the Junction of the North
Branch of Hudson's River with the Western one or a little to the
Westward of it, where the Road cut by the Tories in 1776 from Crown
point comes to the River. Those would at once cover the North Western
parts of this County and the Northern parts of Tryon.

I shall direct Capt. Stockwell to march to Skenesborough, having a small
Detachment at Fort Edward. Copy of his orders I shall transmit your
Excellency by a future Conveyance.

Last night I received a Resolution of Congress accepting of my
Resignation. I feel myself happy in the prospect of that Ease and
Satisfaction which my Retirement will afford me. Impressed however with
a lively sense of the Duty I owe my Country, I must entreat you never
to hesitate honoring me with your Commands on any occasion in which as
a private Citizen I may be serviceable.

As General Clinton will transmit you the Account of our sweep against
the Onondagas, it supersedes the Necessity of my doing it.

       I have the Honor to be Dear Sir with great respect and esteem,
               Your Excellency's most obedient humble servant,
                                            Ph. Schuyler.
  (To Geo. Clinton.)




                   LETTER OF GOUV. MORRIS.

                          * * * * *


                                        Phila. 26th Jany., 1778.
Sir,

Permit me to recommend to your Excellency's favorable attention and
thro you in such manner as you may think most proper to the Legislature
an application of the Bearer of this letter. From the conversation I
have had with him on the subject his design appears to me well
calculated for the purpose of serving in some Degree our Western
Frontier and consequently enriching the intermediate country. It hath
also the immediate effect of procuring a number of good industrious
subjects. Perhaps I should not go too far in saying that every man so
acquired would be worth two. To state or enlarge on his plan would be
absurd as he will personally have the honor of conferring with you. I
have only to say that the honorable stars he gained at Bemis' Heights
will be a better recommendation than I can give. As a Representative of
the State of New York I think I do my Duty in forwarding the Views of
one who is so much its Friend.

  I have the Honor to be most respectfully
                                Your Excellency's
                                   most obedient
                                        and
                                   humble servant,
                                       GOUV. MORRIS.




                   LETTER OF ROBT. MORRIS.

                          * * * * *


                                 Office of Finance, 5 June 1783.
Sir

Congress having directed a very considerable part of the Army to be sent
home on Furlough, I am pressed exceedingly to make a payment of three
months wages, and I am very desirous to accomplish it, but the want of
money compels me to an Anticipation on the Taxes by making this payment
in notes; to render this mode tolerably just or useful, the notes must
be punctually discharged when they fall due, and my dependence must be
on the money to be received of the several States, on the Requisitions
for the last and present year. I hope the urgency of the case will
produce the desired exertions and finally enable me to preserve the
credit and honor of the Federal Government.

                                 I have the honor to
                                        Remain Your Excellency's
                                              Most obedient &
                                                Very humble Servt.
                                                    Robt. Morris.
 His Excellency
     The Governor of New York.




                      LETTER OF JOHN JAY.

                          * * * * *


                                        Paris 10th May 1783.
Dear Sir

I think it probable that every dutch Gentleman who goes to Philadelphia,
will also visit New York, which was first settled by his own nation.

Mr. Boers, who has been deputed by Holland to transact certain affairs
here, recommends Mr. de Hogendorp to me in the warmest Terms. This
gentleman is a Lieutenant in the dutch guards, & of a respectable
family. He expects to go to America with Mr. Van Berkel. The confidence
I have in the Recommendation of Mr. Boers and my Desire of rendering our
Country agreeable to Mr. Hogendorp, leads me to take the Liberty of
introducing him to your Excellency and to request that in case he should
visit New York, he may be favored with your friendly attentions.

  I have the Honor to be with great esteem and Regard,
                      Your Excellency's
                           most ob't & most h'ble Servant,
                                          John Jay.
  His Excellency Geo. Clinton, Esq.
        Governor of New York.




                     LETTER OF JAMES DUANE.

                          * * * * *


                                   Manor Livingston, 28th June 1778.
Sir

I returned from Albany the middle of this month and intended in the
course of the present week to pay a visit to your Excellency principally
to give you a more minute detail than can well be done by letter, of the
state of our western frontier and the temper of the six nations. My
intentions are frustrated by a summons to attend the Commission of
Indian Affairs at Albany on an agreeable occasion. I firmly believe that
if we do not take vigorous and decisive measures with the six nations
they will in the course of this summer drive in a great part of the
inhabitants and do us injuries which it will take years to retrieve.
I have strongly inculcated this idea upon Congress in every letter since
I became thoroughly acquainted with Indian Affairs, and they have now
come to suitable resolutions on the subject. God grant that they may be
shown proper exertions and crowned with success.

The dispatches which accompany this render it needless to be particular.

Mrs. Duane joins me in respectful Compliments to Mrs. Clinton. She
continues very feeble, tho I flatter myself the malady has not yet
reached her vitals and that by exercise and the course of medicine she
is now in, her health may yet be re-established.

    I am with highest respect
         Sir,
                          Your Excellency's most obed.
                               and very humble servant,
                                        JAMES DUANE.
  His Excellency Governor Clinton.




                    LETTER OF ISRAEL PUTNAM.

                          * * * * *


                                       Hartford, April 8th, 1778.
Dear Sir,

I herewith send you Mr. Treland and Lieut. Griffith, both inhabitants
of your State, the latter is an officer in the new Levies, was taken
some time in August last, and since then has been exceeding busy, in
poisoning the minds of the inhabitants where he has been stationed. The
character of the former, I dare say your Excellancy is sufficiently
acquainted with. I have Lieut. Griffith in consequence of a Resolution
of Congress, making the Inhabitants of the States subject to trial by
the Civil Law and for his bad behavior since he has been Indulged with
a Parole.

I arrived here yesterday and to-morrow proceed as to Gov. Trumball.

                                    I am, Dear Sir,
                                        Your most Obed. Serv't,
                                              Israel Putnam.
  His Excellency, Gov. Clinton.

P. S. The three pieces of heavy cannon which I mentioned to your
Excellency has arrived here, one of them went on three or four Days
since, the others will go in about two days.




          Clinton Papers Furnished by Geo. Clinton Andrews, Esq.
                                of Tarrytown, N. Y.




                    LETTER OF GEORGE CLINTON.

                          * * * * *


                                Fort Montgomery, 2d May 1777.
Sir,

I wrote to Convention this morning inclosing the Proceedings of a
General Court Martial held at this place for the Trial of sundry
prisoners for Treason against the States. Since which so many others
have been sent to this Post charged with the same offense that the Guard
House can't contain them. I have therefore thought it advisable to send
those already tried to be confined in Livingston Gaol, together with
Cadwallader Coldon Esquire, who stands charged with the like offense as
will appear by the Examination of Jacob Davis taken before the Chairman
of the Committee of Shawangunk and now transmitted to you by Lieutenant
Rose, who has the care of the Prisoners. One of the Prisoners tells that
Doctor Ansson and one Low was left behind their party in the Clove near
Pysoryck at a little house there on Account of Low's being lame and the
Doctor to take care of him. They ought in my opinion to be hunted up
immediately. The Prisoners except Mr. Coldon, who are not yet tried, I
mean to keep confined at this Place for Trial. Mr. Coldon I have thought
best to send forward as it might not be prudent to keep him confined at
this Post for many Reasons.

                                  I am your
                                     Most Obed. Serv't,
                                            GEO. CLINTON.
  To the President of the Convention of
         the State of New York,




                   LETTER OF JAMES CLINTON.

                          * * * * *


                                       Albany, May 28th, 1779.
Sir,

I have received yours of the 23rd Inst. General Ten Broeck hath
ascertained the Quota which each Regiment is to furnish for the
Continental and State Regiments, and Issued Orders for them to join in
one week after the Orders were issued. I believe the General has
endeavored to take every necessary step to supply the Deficiencies which
yet remain, Tho from the unavoidable delays of the officers of his
Brigade he hath met with much trouble, as I have seen I believe, every
letter he has received on the subject.

I have ordered Capt. McKean to command all the drafts of Tryon County,
as I knew it was agreeable to all the Inhabitants of that part of the
Country, tho I did not know at the time I appointed him for this service
that you intended him to Command those drafts out of General Ten Broeck's
Brigade. I conceived Lieut. Smith was to be his Lieutenant.

I have disposed of them in the following manner, to wit--Capt. McKean
and Lieut. Smith with all the drafts from Colonels Clock, Bellinger and
Gambles Regiments at Fort Dayton and a small Fort, eight miles higher
up the River.

Lieut. Vrooman with those from Colonel Vesichus' Regiment at the Block
House at Sacandaga, where there are a Captain and and sixty men of
Colonel Dubois' Regiment. Those Drafts serve as Pilots.

The drafts from Colonel Vrooman's Regiment at Schoharie with an officer
from the same Regiment, I have ordered to a Block House and Picqueted
Fort, which I ordered to be built last Winter at Cobus Kill.

Those under Capt. Stockwell and a certain Lieut. Putnam, appointed by
Colonel McCrea, are ordered to take Post at Skeenesborough and Fort
Edwards.

I should be glad to see Major Van Burnschooten with the drafts you
mention at this place. They might be disposed of to great advantage at
Schoharie, where they will be much wanted when the Continental troops
are ordered to March.

Enclosed I send you a Copy of a Letter from Colonel Van Schaick which
contains all the news in this quarter.

                                        I am your
                                          very humble servant,
                                                     James Clinton.
  Gov. Clinton.




                THE WILL OF CHARLES CLINTON.

                          * * * * *


In the name of God, amen. I, Charles Clinton, of Little Brittain, in
the County of Ulster and Province of New York in America, being of sound
mind and memory, blessed be God, do this twenty-sixth day of March, in
the year of Our Lord One thousand seven hundred and Seventy one, make
and publish this my last Will and Testament in manner following (viz):
First I give and bequeath to my Eldest son Charles, my Negro Boys Robin
and Dublin, and I give and bequeath to him the sum of two hundred and
Thirty seven pounds, Current money of New York, to be paid to him out
of the money I have out at Interest, and I hereby authorize, impower and
appoint my Executors hereinafter named to divide a lot of land of mine,
Containing five hundred acres, lying on the West side of the Wallkill
(being part of a tract of land granted by letters Patent to Frederick
Morris and Samuel Heath) into two or three Lotts, as it may suit best
for Sale, and to sell the same and give a good Sufficient deed for it,
and I give and bequeath to my son Charles, four hundred and thirty-three
pounds New York Currency of the money arising by the sale of the said
land and I give and bequeath to my Son George the sum of two hundred
pounds, and to my son James the sum of Seventy pounds of the Price of
the said lands and if it shall or can be sold for any more, it is my
Will my son George shall have the over surplus it brings. Also I give
and Devise to my son James, his heirs and assigns forever, my farm
whereon I now dwell in Little Brittain in Ulster County, Containing two
hundred and fifteen acres, being part of a tract of two thousand acres
Granted by letters patent to Andrew Johnson, lying in the Southwesterly
Corner thereof. To have and to hold the said farm with all and singular
the Rights, members and appurtenances thereof to my said Son James, his
heirs and assigns forever, which farm I valued only at Seven hundred
pounds, to him, and I give to my said Son, my Negro boys David and
Isaac. And I give and bequeath to my Son George the sum of five hundred
and Seventy pounds of the money I have at Interest and whatever money
there shall be due to me at the time of my decease, either Interest or
principle, more than the Legacies above mentioned and what will pay the
quit Rent due for my Lands and my Just debts, I order it to be Equally
Divided between my said three sons and I give my Son George, my Negro
boys William and Samuel, my Negro Wench Lettice, I Intended to give to
my Daughter Catherine but she being then very Sickly and having no
Children, she Desired if she died before me, I should Leave her free
which I promised to do and a promise made at the Request of so dutiful
& affectionate a Child, who is now dead and Cannot Release me from it,
I think my Self sacredly obliged to perform. Therefore it is my Will
She shall be free and I hereby manumit her & make her free from Slavery
but so as to Exclude and utterly to Debar all and every person and
persons whatsoever from making any Covenant Bargain or agreement with
her to enslave or bind her for life or for any Number of years or to
use any other way or means to prevent or Defraud her of her time,
liberty or wages that she may honestly earn for her maintainance and
support. And I give and bequeath to my said three sons, Charles, James
and George, all my Stock of Cows, Sheep, Oxen and horses, my negro
Peter and my Wench Pegg or Margaret, and all my Crop of Grain on my
farm and all my Books and household furniture, except the furniture
hereafter mentioned, which I give to my Wife for her Room, and I leave
my farming utensils on my farm for my son James, to whom I have Given
my farm and it is my Will that my Said three Sons, Charles, James and
George, their Executors & administrators, Shall out of my Estate hereby
Given to them at their Equal Expense Decently Cloath, keep, maintain and
find fit attendance for my Wife Elizabeth, according to her Rank and
Station in life, and I leave her a good bed Curtains, bed-cloaths,
Sheets, Pillows and one of my small looking glasses, tea table and Some
Chairs for her Room, as she is now about Seventy four years of age and
is or Soon will be incapable to take Care of her Self, therefore It is
my Earnest Request that her sons may behave as they have always done in
a kind and dutiful and affectionate manner to her While She lives. I
give to my Grandson Charles Clinton Junior, my plate handled sword and
I give my Grandson Alexander Clinton my fusee or small gun I carried
when I was in the army, and I give to my Grandaughter Catherine Clinton,
(my Son George's daughter) my Largest looking glass. I give to my son
James all my mathematical Instruments. I give to my son James, my Clock
and I give to my son George, my watch, and I give to my Son Charles, my
Long Gun and my Desk as I have Given to each of my sons James and George
one hundred pounds by this will more than I have to my Son Charles. . . .
It is not done out of Partiality but for the following Reasons--When
his Brother Alexander died he was Seized in fee of a Good Improved farm.
Containing two hundred Acres; as he died Intestate, having no issue,
It fell to my Son Charles, he being his Eldest Brother and my Son
Charles' Education being more Expensive to me I thought it but Justice
to Make that Small amendment To their portions, which is far from making
them Equal to their Brother Charles. It is my Will I be buryed in the
Graveyard in my own farm, beside my Daughter Catherine and it is my Will
the said Graveyard be made four Rods Square and an open free Road to it
at all times, when it Shall be necessary and I nominate and appoint my
said three sons Charles, James and George, Executors of this my last
will, to see the same Executed accordingly and I order that my said
Executors procure a suitable stone to lay over my Grave, whereon I would
have the time of my death, my age and Coat of Arms cut. I hope they will
Indulge in this Last piece of vanity.

  Signed, Sealed, Published and
  Declared in the presence of us, by
  the said Charles Clinton, the testator
  and for his last will, who
  were present at the Signing and
  Sealing thereof.
  (The words "George the sum of
  two hundred pounds and to my son"
  being first Interlined, the
  words "Devise to my Son James
  his heirs" being wrote on an
  erasure and a small erasure
  made between the words "Charles"
  and "It".)
                                         CHAS. CLINTON (L. S.)
  SAM'L SANDS.       JEREMIAH WHITE.        ARTHUR SMITH.




[Illustration: MEMORIAL MARKER AT HALFWAY BROOK, QUEENSBURY, N. Y.]




                 THE HALF-WAY BROOK IN HISTORY.

                          * * * * *

                 By James Austin Holden, A. B.

                          * * * * *


In choosing as its first subject for a memorial marker "The Half-Way
Brook," the New York State Historical Association has made a dignified
and wise selection, for it may be truly said that no stream in the
Adirondack Wilderness is more noted in history and the Annals of the
Border, than this, whose appellation "Half-Way" comes from the fact that
it was nearly equidistant from Fort Edward on the south and Fort William
Henry on the north. Rising in the branch of the Palmertown range known
as the Luzerne Mountains, west of Glens Falls, running a crooked but
generally easterly and northerly course, now expanding into small lakes
or basins, now receiving the waters of numerous small tributaries, ponds
and rivulets, it divides the town of Queensbury into two parts, passes
the Kingsbury line, turns in a northerly direction, and empties into
Wood Creek at a point about three-quarters of a mile south from Battle
Hill, at Fort Ann, in Washington County.

In the days before American history began, the region traversed by this
stream was a favorite hunting ground for the Red Man, and this water
course, even to-day famous for its speckled trout, was one of his chosen
pleasuring places.

For more than two hundred years the great deep-worn warpaths or
traveling trails of the Indian Nations ran to and from its banks. And
whether the fleet, moccasined warriors went westward over the Sacandaga
trail to the big bend of the Hudson and so on to the Iroquois
strongholds, or whether they came to the "Great Carrying Place," at what
is now Fort Edward, through Lake Champlain and Wood Creek, or chose the
trip through Lake St. Sacrament past the site of the future Glens Falls,
down to Albany, or the west, all must cross this stream, which thus
became as familiar to the Adirondack and Iroquois Confederacies, as the
alphabet to us of to-day. This knowledge so gained was made ample use of
in later times in many a bloody ambush, surprise or savage foray. After
the defeat of Dieskau in 1755, and the building of Fort William Henry
at Lake George and Fort Edward at the "Great Carrying Place" the
"Half-Way Brook" became a point of strategic importance, and as a
halting place and rendezvous for the passing troops, and the convoys of
supplies between the two forts, it was noted throughout the northern
colonies, as long as the French and Indian war lasted.

It was variously denominated by the military authorities during that
time. On an old manuscript map without date in the New York State
Library, it is noted as "Schoone Creek," while the Earl of Louden's map
in 1757 has it marked as "Fork's Creek." [FN-1] Rogers, the famous
scout and ranger, called it "Bloody Brook." In Col. James Montresor's
Journals, in 1757, it is styled "Half-Way Run." On the Robert Harpur
map, in the Secretary of State's office at Albany, it is called
"Scoune Creek," [FN-2] while Knox's Military Journal designated it as
"Seven Mile Creek," because it was seven miles from the head of the
lake. In Wilson's Orderly Book of Amherst's Expedition, in 1759, it is
laid down as "Shone Creek." [FN-2]

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] The name of "Fork Creek" was probably derived from the name
 given it by Major General Fitz John Winthrop, who headed an
 unsuccessful expedition against the Canadians and their Indian allies
 in the summer of 1690. On August 6th, he states that "he encamped at
 a branch of Wood Creak, called the fork." This is the place where the
 "Half-Way" enters Wood Creek near Fort Ann. Here, while his command
 was in camp, smallpox broke out, and a Lieut. Hubbell died from this
 disease and was buried at that spot. Our Secretary, R. O. Bascom, in
 his "Fort Edward Book," p. 15, states "this was the first recorded
 burial in the country."

 [FN-2] Possibly a corruption of "Skene," from the founder of
 Skenesborough.


On a "powder horn map" made by one John Taylor of "Swago" in 1765, there
is a block house clearly defined at "Helf Br" between Forts Edward and
George. [FN-1] On later maps such as the Sauthier map, published about
1778, and reproduced in the Seventh Volume of the Governor Clinton Papers,
[FN-2] it bears the a popular name of "Half-Way Brook," bestowed upon it
we know not by whom nor when, but which appearing in contemporary
diaries, documents, letters and official despatches of "The Seven Years
War," has ever since clung to it, and will while its waters run to the
sea. [FN-3]

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] The New York World of February 2d, 1896, had a sketch of this
 powder horn, which, at that time, was in the museum of Major Frank
 A. Betts, Washington, D. C. This rudely engraved map shows the various
 forts and settlements along the Mohawk and Hudson valleys, and depicts
 the trails to Lakes George and Champlain on the one side and to Lake
 Ontario on the other.

 [FN-2] Letter Hon. Hugh Hastings, State Historian.

 [FN-3] C. Johnson's History of Washington County (pub. Phila., 1878)
 states that the "Half-Way Brook" was also known as "Clear River"--p.
 301. The U. S. Geological Survey, in its map of this section of New
 York State, published about 1895, has labeled the brook as "Half-Way
 Creek," which, while it may be technically correct, will never be
 recognized in local usage or by faithful historians.


It will be remembered that in the Campaign of 1755, Sir William Johnson
had constructed a corduroy road from Fort Edward to Lake George,
following substantially the present highway between the two points. Cut
through the dark and gloomy virgin forest, with its overhang of
interlaced pine and evergreen boughs, its thickets of dense underbrush,
the road led through swamps, over rivulets, over sandy knolls, and
primal rocky hills to the head of the lake. On every side was leafy
covert or rugged eminence, suitable for ambuscade or hiding-place of
savage foe, or hardly less savage Canadian or French regular. Every rod
of ground on this road is stained with the blood of the English, the
Colonists, and their Indian allies, or that of their fierce, implacable
enemies. Hardly a mile but what has its story of massacre, surprise,
murder, deeds of daring and heroism, or of duty performed under horrible
and heartrending circumstances.

In order to protect the road, as well as afford a resting place for
soldiers and teamsters, and to supply a needed depot for military stores
and provisions, the late Dr. A. W. Holden [FN] in his History of
Queensbury, says: "At an early period in the French War, a block house
and stockaded enclosure, in which were also several store houses, had
been erected at the Half-Way Brook. The date of its construction would
seem to have been in 1755, for in that year the French scouts and
runners, reported to their chief that the English had erected posts
every two leagues from the head of Lake George to Albany. It was
situated on the north side of the brook, and to the west of the plank
road leading to the head of Lake George. The old military road led
across the brook about four rods above the present crossing. A part of
the old abutments, timbers and causeway were visible up to the late
seventies. It was capable of accommodating upwards of eight hundred men,
and was protected by redoubts, rifle pits, earthworks, and a palisade
of hewn timbers."

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The Historian of the Town of Queensbury, N. Y.


The walls of the fort were pierced for cannon as well as for rifles, or
muskets. In passing it may be said that from time to time, this, like
all similar frontier forts of the time, was enlarged, strengthened,
abandoned, destroyed, rebuilt, as the exigencies of military service
made it necessary, but the site remained the same. This was near the
rear, and to the westward of the brick residence now occupied by William
H. Parker. Continuing Dr. Holden says:

 "During the summer of 1756, a force of six hundred Canadians and
 Indians attacked a baggage and provision train at the Half-Way Brook,
 while on its way from Fort Edward to the garrison at Fort William
 Henry.

 "The oxen were slaughtered, the convoy mostly killed and scalped, and
 the wagons plundered of their goods and stores. Heavily laden with
 booty, the marauding party commenced its retreat towards South Bay on
 Lake Champlain. Embarking in batteaux they were proceeding leisurely
 down the lake when they were overtaken by a party of one hundred
 rangers under the command of Captains Putnam and Rogers. These latter
 had with them two small pieces of artillery, and two blunderbusses,
 and at the narrows, about eight miles north of Whitehall, they crossed
 over from Lake George, and succeeded in sinking several of the enemy's
 boats, and killing several of the oarsmen. A heavy south wind favored
 the escape of the remainder." [FN]

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Wm. Cutter's Life of Israel Putnam, p. 60; Dr. Asa Fitch in Trans
 N. Y. S. Agri. Soc'y, 1848, pp. 916-917; Spark's Am. Biog., Vol. 8,
 p. 119.


During this summer several bloody affrays took place between Fort
Edward and Lake George, and the French accounts are full of successful
raids and surprises.

In 1757 Col. James Montresor [FN] was sent to America as head of the
Engineer corps of His Majesty's forces. He drew the plans for and
constructed several fortifications in New York Province. In his journal
under date of Monday, July 25th, he says: "Set out from Ft. Edward at
6 o'clock in the morning and arrived in the afternoon. Stopt at the
Half-Way Run, agreed on a post there on the south side of the Run on
the east of the Road about 50 Yards." Under date of Friday, July 29th,
he writes: "Set out for Fort Wm. Henry at 12 o'clock with Gen'l Webb
&c, arrived at the Half-Way at 3, met the carpenter going up that I had
sent for, to carry on the work there." It does not appear, however, that
anything was done with this fortification on account of Montcalm's
victory a few weeks later.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Col. Montresor, who served in America from 1757 until 1760, makes
 several allusions to the "Half-Way" in his Journals covering that
 period.


The Campaign of 1757 teemed with scenes of bloodshed along the frontier,
and the history of the Fort Edward and Lake George trail abounds with
sad tales of atrocity and savagery, culminating in the successful attack
of Montcalm on Fort William Henry, and followed by the terrible massacre
which, whether rightfully or wrongfully, tarnished forever the
reputation of that noted and able commander. Of the few who escaped it
is on record that Col. (afterwards General) Jacob Bayley of New
Hampshire, ran the gauntlet and escaped by fleeing bare-footed for seven
miles through the woods to the "Half-Way Brook."

 "Six days afterwards," Dr. Holden says, "Captain de Poulharies of the
 Royal Rousillon regiment, with an escort of two hundred and fifty
 soldiers, accompanied the survivors of the massacre, upwards of four
 hundred, with the one piece of cannon, a six pounder, granted by the
 ninth article of capitulation, as a token of the Marquis de Montcalm's
 esteem for Lieutenant Colonel Monro and his garrison, on account of
 their honorable defense, to the post at the Half-Way Brook, where they
 met a like detachment from the garrison at Fort Edward, sent by General
 Webb to receive them."

From records kept by officers and other documents, we learn that the
"Half-Way" [FN] was usually designated through this war as the meeting
place for white flag parties and exchange of prisoners.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] This is the generally accepted local usage of the name.


After the fall of Fort William Henry, the northern outposts of the
British were abandoned, and the frontier left open to the ravages and
raids of the savages and the Canadians.

March 10th, 1758, Major Robert Rogers, the Ranger, with about one
hundred and eighty rangers, officers and privates, camped at the
"Half-Way," the first considerable body of men to occupy it in the
campaign of that year. From here he proceeded down Lake George, meeting
with disaster and defeat at the hands of seven hundred of the enemy,
three days afterward.

June 8th, 1758, Lord Howe, the pride and idol of the army and his
nation, a nobleman by birth and nature, took command of the forces,
which for weeks had been gathering at Ford Edward. On June 20th we find
him at the "Half-Way Brook" with three thousand men. It is supposed that
this body of soldiers camped on what is still known as the "Garrison
Grounds," situated on the south bank of the "Half-Way Brook," and about
midway between the old Champlin place and DeLong's brickyard. A branch
road led from the "Garrison Grounds" to the block house (back of the
Parker residence) and crossed the brook a little way below the present
highway bridge. This was the spot selected for a "post" by Col.
Montresor the year before, and partially laid out at that time. Here
for two days Lord Howe remained, until he received reports from Major
Rogers and his scouts of the disposition of the enemy's forces. We can
imagine him as usual engaged in the rough frontier sports of wrestling,
jumping, shooting at a mark, and the like; instructing the regulars in
ranger and New World tactics, and proving himself in every way the
leading spirit and good genius of the camp. Here no doubt he met Stark,
Putnam and other Colonials who later were to be leaders in the war for
liberty. On the 22nd this part of the army moved to the lake, and was
shortly joined by General Abercrombie and the rest of the troops, making
a grand army of fifteen thousand, which was soon to go to disaster and
defeat before the rude earth breastworks and felled trees at
Ticonderoga, Abercrombie's defeat occurred July 8th, 1758, and he
quickly returned to the head of the lake and strongly entrenched his
forces for the balance of the season.

A number of diaries and journals of the New Englanders [FN] in the
Campaign have been preserved and published, and from these, although
brief and illiterate in form, we gain an excellent idea of the events
of that period. The Colonial soldiery, looked down upon by the British
officers, were forced to perform the drudgery and manual labor necessary
in building and fortifying the camp, constructing its ditches and
breastworks, and throwing up its defenses. Incidentally it may be said,
it was the contemptuous treatment accorded the New England troops in
this and succeeding campaigns, which made the people of that section so
ready to throw off the British yoke later on. When not doing this work
they were compelled to act as wagoners, drivers, carpenters, road
makers, and the like. These various diaries speak in many places of work
of this menial character (for which these men had not enlisted, and
apparently did not care for), at and about "Half-Way Brook." General
Putnam in his Journal says, "During our stay at the lake, after our
return from Ticonderoga, we were employed in almost everything." The
Journal of an unknown Provincial Officer (see note), says, under date
of July 15th, "Nothing worth notice this day but working and duty came
on harder by orders from head-quarters." Both these journals mention a
"Sunday off" from work as a great treat and a rarity.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Among these may be mentioned the Journals of Rufus Putnam, cousin
 of Israel Putnam, and afterwards a Revolutionary General; the "Diary of
 Lieut. Samuel Thompson, of Woburn, Mass." (for which I am indebted to
 Dr. Sherman Williams, of Glens Falls); the Journal of an Unknown
 Provincial Officer in Col. Preble's Regiment of Massachusetts; "The
 Memoirs of John Stark," and "Rogers' Journals."


From the 25th of May until the 22nd of October, when the fortifications
were dismantled and abandoned by General Abercrombie at the head of the
lake, Lieut. Thompson, according to his diary, was on constant duty,
either at the "Half-Way Brook" with a picquet guard, or at the lake. The
daily life and work of the soldiers is given in his diary in detail. It
also gives the names of a number of people who died from disease and
were buried at the "Half-Way Brook." He describes the return of the
English and Colonials from Ticonderoga, and under date of July 8th,
being at the head of the lake that day, there is the following entry in
his book:

"Saturday, Post came from the Narrows; and they brought Lord How to ye
Fort, who was slain at their landing; and in ye afternoon there came
in 100 and odd men, French prisoners into the Fort." These were Langy's
men captured at the fatal Trout Brook skirmish.

This testimony by an eye witness would go far to disprove the theory of
recent times, that Lord Howe's remains had been discovered at Trout
Brook; and it tends to confirm the statements of older historians, that
his remains were probably taken to Albany for burial.

On July 20th occurred one of the many skirmishes for which the "Half-Way
Brook" is noted. One of the several scouting parties sent out by
Montcalm to attack and harass the soldiers and convoys on the "Lidius"
(Fort Edward) road and to take scalps and provisions, made one of their
usual hawk-like descents, falling upon Col. Nichol's regiment, then
quartered at the "Half-Way Brook" block house. Pouchet says, the
detachment, five hundred in number, was made up of Canadians and
Indians, commanded by M. de Courte-Manche, and that it succeeded in
taking twenty-four scalps and making ten prisoners. Only the Indians'
impatience prevented a complete massacre of the troops in the block
house. Regarding this affray I quote the following in full from the
Thompson Diary, as it gives the names of the officers and men killed in
this skirmish.



[Illustration: Panoramic View of Half-Way Brook]



 "20--Thursday, in the morning, 10 men in a scout waylaid by the Indians
 and shot at and alarmed the Fort, and a number of our men went out to
 assist them, and the enemy followed our men down to our Fort, and in
 their retreat, Capt. Jones and Lieut. Godfrey were killed, and Capt.
 Lawrence and Capt. Dakin, and Lieut, Curtis and Ensn. Davis, and two
 or three non-commissioned officers and privates, to the number of
 fourteen men, who were brought into the Fort, all scalped but Ensn.
 Davis, who was killed within 20 or 30 rods from the Fort; and there was
 one grave dug, and all of them were buried together, the officers by
 themselves at one end, and the rest at the other end of the grave; and
 Mr. Morrill made a prayer at the grave, and it was a solemn funeral;
 and Nath. Eaton died in the Fort and was buried; and we kept a very
 strong guard that night of 100 men. Haggit (and) William Coggin
 wounded.

 "A list of Men's Names that were killed in this fight:

 "Capt. Ebenezer Jones of Washington (of diarist's company).
  Capt. (Samuell) Dakin of Sudbury.
  Lieut. Samuel Curtice of Ditto (Curtis).
  Private (William) Grout of do.
  Lieut. Simon Godfrey of Billerica (of diarists Company).
  Capt. (Thomas) Lawrence of Groton.
  Corp. ____ Gould of Groton Gore.
  Private Abel Satle (Sawtell) of Groton.
  Private Eleazer Eames of Groton.
  Do. Stephen Foster Do.
  Serg. Oliver Wright, Westford.
  Private Simon Wheeler Do.
  Ensn. ____ Davis of Metheun.
  Sergt. ____ Russell of Concord.
  Private Abraham Harden (Harnden?) of Pembroke.
  Private Payson, of Rowley.
  Private (Jonathan) Patterson, of Sudbury.

 "We have also an account that there are seven of our men carried into
  Ticonderoga, which make up the number of those that were missing.

 "21--Friday, in ye afternoon, a party of about 150 went out to find
  more men that were missing, and we found 4 men who were scalped, and
  we buried them, and so returned; and at prayer this evening we were
  alarmed by a false outcry. Nicholas Brown died and was buried; and
  Moses Haggit died."

This account thus corroborates in detail the French official dispatches
and Pouchet's description of the attack.

Under date of Friday, July 28th, Lieut. Thompson, who that day had been
down towards the Narrows, "to peal bark for to make camp," returned to
Lake George and says: "In the evening there came news that the Indians
had killed a number of teams and their guard below ye Halfway Brook, and
there was a scout fitting to go after them."

As this massacre to which the Thompson Diary so briefly refers, is
probably the most important event which took place at the "Half-Way
Brook," we quote fully from Holden's History of Queensbury, concerning
it:

 "On Thursday the twenty-seventh of July, a detachment of four hundred
 men, consisting of Canadians and Indians, under the command of M. St.
 de Luc la Corne, a French-Colonial officer, attacked an English force
 of one hundred and fifty men consisting of teamsters and an escort of
 soldiers, while on their way from the station at the Half-Way Brook,
 to the Camp at the head of the lake. The account here given is as
 nearly as can be remembered in the language of a Mr. Jones of
 Connecticut, who was a member of Putnam's company which arrived on the
 ground soon after the affray took place. In the year 1822 he related
 the circumstances as here recorded, to the late Herman Peck of Glens
 Falls, while on a visit to Connecticut. It is from Mr. Peck that I
 obtained the narrative, which corresponds so completely with the French
 version of the affair that there can be no question whatever as to its
 general accuracy and reliability.

 "A baggage train of sixty carts, loaded with flour, pork, wine, rum,
 etc., each cart drawn by two to three yoke of oxen, accompanied by an
 unusually large escort of troops, was despatched from Fort Edward to
 the head of Lake George to supply the troops of General Abercrombie,
 who lay encamped at that point. This party halted for the night at the
 stockade post at the Half-Way Brook. As they resumed their march in the
 morning, and before the escort had fairly cleared the picketed
 enclosure, they were suddenly attacked by a large party of French and
 Indians which laid concealed in the thick bushes and reeds that
 bordered the stream, and lined the road on both sides, along the low
 lands between the block house and the Blind rock.

 "The night previously to this ambuscade and slaughter, Putnam's Company
 of rangers having been to the lake to secure supplies, encamped at the
 flats near the southern spur of the French mountain. In the early
 morning they were aroused from their slumbers by the sound of heavy
 firing in a southerly direction, and rolling up their blankets they
 sprang to their arms and hastened rapidly forward to the scene of
 action, a distance of about four miles. They arrived only in time to
 find the slaughtered carcasses of some two hundred and fifty oxen, the
 mangled remains of the soldiers, women and teamsters, and the broken
 fragments of the two wheeled carts, which constituted in that primitive
 age the sole mode of inland transportation.

 "The provisions and stores had been plundered and destroyed. Among the
 supplies was a large number of boxes of chocolate which had been broken
 open and their contents strewed upon the ground, which dissolving in
 the fervid heat of the summer sun, mingled with the pools and rivulets
 of blood forming a sickening and revolting spectacle. The convoy had
 been ambushed and attacked immediately after leaving the protection of
 the stockade post, and the massacre took place upon the flats, between
 the Half-Way Brook, and the Blind rock, or what is more commonly known
 at the present day as the Miller place.

 "Putnam with his command, took the trail of the marauders, which soon
 became strewed with fragments of plunder dropped by the rapidly
 retreating savages, who succeeded in making their escape, with but
 little loss of life. The Provincials unable to catch up with the
 savages, returned immediately to the scene of the butchery, where they
 found a company from Fort Edward engaged in preparing a trench for the
 interment of the dead.

 "Over one hundred of the soldiers composing the escort were slain, many
 of whom were recognized as officers, from their uniforms, consisting in
 part of red velvet breeches. The corpses of twelve females were mingled
 with the dead bodies of the soldiery. All the teamsters were supposed
 to have been killed. While the work of burial was going forward the
 rangers occupied themselves in searching the trails leading through the
 dense underbrush and tangled briars which covered the swampy plains.
 Several of the dead were by this means added to the already large
 number of the slain. On the side of one of these trails, the narrator
 of these events found the corpse of a woman which had been exposed to
 the most barbarous indignities and mutilations, and fastened in an
 upright position to a sapling which had been bent over for the purpose.
 All of the bodies had been scalped, and most of them mangled in a
 horrible manner.

 "One of the oxen had no other injury, than to have one of its horns cut
 off. This they were obliged to kill. Another ox had been regularly
 scalped. This animal was afterwards driven to the lake, where it
 immediately became an object of sympathy and attention of the whole
 army. By careful attendance and nursing, the wound healed in the course
 of the season. In the fall the animal was driven down to the farm of
 Col. Schuyler, near Albany, and the following year was shipped to
 England as a curiosity. Far and wide it was known as 'the scalped ox.'
 The bodies of the dead were buried in a trench near the scene of the
 massacre, a few rods east of the picketed enclosure.

 "The French version of the affair, states the oxen were killed, the
 carts burned, the property pillaged by the Indians, the barrels of
 liquor destroyed, one hundred and ten scalps secured, and eighty-four
 prisoners taken; of these twelve were women and girls. The escort which
 was defeated consisted of forty men commanded by a lieutenant who was
 taken. The remainder of the men who were killed or taken prisoners
 consisted of wagoners, sutlers, traders, women and children."

The loss of this convoy was keenly felt by the English. General
Abercrombie lost some baggage and effects, and, according to the French
reports, his music as well. He, as soon as possible, sent Rogers and his
body of Rangers across country to try and intercept the marauders before
they reached Lake Champlain. Rogers was too late to accomplish his
purpose, and on his way back he fell into an ambush near Fort Ann, about
a mile from "Clear River" (or the Half-Way), on August 8th, and was
badly defeated by M. Marin and his force of three hundred Regulars,
Canadians and Indians. In this fight, Israel Putnam was taken prisoner,
but was later released from captivity through the intercession of Col.
Schuyler. [FN]

                          * * * * *

 [FN] For other and corroboratory original accounts of the attacks of
 July 20th and 27th see French despatches in Col. Doc. N. Y., Vol. X,
 pp. 750, 816, 817, 849, 850, and English reports in Watson's Essex,
 pp. 96, 97; Pouchot's Memoirs, Vol. I, p. 123; Rogers' Journals, p.
 117; Putnam's Journals, pp. 72-73; Sewall's Wobum, Mass., pp. 550, 551,
 552, 553; Dawson's Hist. Mag, Aug., 1871, pp. 117, 118; Cutter's
 Putnam, pp. 96, 97; Stark's Memoirs, pp. 26, 436. These accounts differ
 some in details but are alike in essentials.


This massacre was the cause of a permanent guard of about eight hundred
men being stationed at the "Half-Way Brook," which is referred to in the
Thompson Diary under date of August 1st, he being one of the eighty out
of Col. Nichol's regiment who were ordered on duty at that spot. And
from that time until the close of the campaign late in the fall, the
road between Lake George and the "Half-Way Brook," and Fort Edward and
the same point, was constantly patrolled by detachments from the two
forts, practically putting an end to further assaults and surprises.

The diaries of those days show that, as yet, the temperance idea half a
century or so afterward to arise in this locality, had no place among
the hard drinking, hard swearing, and hard fighting men of that period,
as these extracts from the Thompson Journal prove:

 "August 28, Monday: Certified that Cape Breton was taken, and 63 cannon
 shot at Fort Edward and small arms. In joy we made a great fire, and
 every soldier had a jill of Rum at the Half Way Brook; and it was a
 very rainy night.

 "August 29, Tuesday: 140 of us went and made a breastwork; and we had
 a jill of rum; and we had a remarkable drink of flip this evening; a
 very cold night.

 "Sept. 5, Tuesday: I on guard; and we earned half a jill of rum by
 making great many bonfires."

This diary tells of one more attack, which seems to have escaped the
notice of other historians, and is therefore inserted at this point.
Under date of Sept. 9th, it says:

 "Saturday: the picquet guard went to meet the teams; a Sargeant and
 four men went forward to tell Half Way Brook guard that the picquet was
 coming; and the Indians shot the Sergeant and scalped him before one
 man got to him; and then the Indians ran away." [FN]

                          * * * * *

 [FN] In passing we may say that Lieut. Thompson returned home safely,
 served at Concord and Lexington, and, his biographer says, finally
 "became one of the most useful men in the Town of Woburn." To him is
 attributed the discovery of the "Baldwin Apple," and a monument
 commemorating this gift to mankind, has been erected to his memory,
 making applicable in peculiar fashion Milton's lines, "Peace hath her
 victories no less renowned than war."


With the close of the Abercrombie Campaign, and the abandonment of
headquarters at Lake George, Fort Edward became once more the northern
outpost of Colonial civilization. [FN]

                          * * * * *

 [FN] General Abercrombie, according to documents in William L. Stone's
 possession, also spelled his name "Abercromby." Montresor spells it
 with a "y," but leading American historians use the termination "ie."


In 1759, Sir Geoffrey Amherst was made Commander-in-Chief of the English
forces in America. He was a brave, able, but perhaps over-conservative
general, since after his easy victory over Montcalm's forces, he
occupied himself more in fort building than in active operations of
warfare, and in following up advantages gained. During this campaign
the "Half-Way Brook" post was first occupied in March, 1759, by Rogers,
the Ranger (with his scouting party of three hundred and fifty-eight
men, including officers), who was starting out to go down Lake George
on the ice on one of his usual disastrous spying expeditions. In the
month of May, troops and new levies were beginning to assemble at
Albany, under General Amherst's supervision. While they were being
drilled, detachments of the regular forces were being sent forward to
Fort Edward. Meanwhile, Colonel James Montresor, Engineer-in-Chief, had
been charged with the duty of drawing up plans for fortifications at
Lake George, and along the line of march. Accordingly Major West, of
his Majesty's troops, with laborers and mechanics, was sent forward to
construct an intermediate post between Fort Edward and the lake. A site
was chosen near the former "Garrison Grounds," on the south bank of the
"Half Way," and a few rods east of the old military road. A stockaded
fortress was erected, surrounded on three of its sides by a ditch and
counterscarp; while the rear was protected by an impassable swamp (now
covered by the Brick Kiln Pond), which at that period existed at that
point. This fortification was given the name of Fort Amherst, in honor
of the then Commander.

Major West was placed in charge of the small garrison, and the post was
equipped with artillery and the necessary supplies and ammunition. A
number of huts, barracks and log structures were also built here at this
time (whose sites were easily traceable in the early thirties), some of
which were in existence at the beginning of the Revolutionary War, and
were used by the pioneers of Queensbury, as well as the American forces
later on.

Local tradition also has it that the block house on the opposite side of
the brook, was then rebuilt, enlarged and strengthened. On some old maps
Fort Amherst is laid down as on the site of the old block house, but
this is incorrect.

In passing the writer wishes to state that the committee in charge of
the erection of the memorial tablets, have chosen to give the block
house, back of the Parker residence, the name of "The Seven Mile Post,"
applied to it in Knox's Military Journal under date of June 28, 1759,
and to the fort on the "brickyard road," now called Glenwood Avenue, the
name of "Fort Amherst." The remains of the ditches on this road were in
evidence up to the early seventies, but in building up and remaking the
highway at that point, they were covered over and no vestiges of them
now remain.

General Rufus Putnam, at that time orderly sergeant, during the month of
June, 1759, describes in his Journal the forwarding of the troops and
supplies from Albany, as far as Fort Edward, where he encamped until the
18th, when the regiment with which he was connected, was marched to the
"Half-Way Brook," where they were occupied in making roads and keeping
the highway secure for the passage of troops and supplies. Under the
dates of July 1st and 4th he writes the following, which is an epitome
of the events going on at that time:

 "From the time that we came to this place till now, nothing remarkable;
 but bateaux, cannon and all kinds of stores carrying up, forces
 marching daily to the Lake and duty exceeding hard.

 "The Artillery was carried from Fort Edward to Lake George and was
 guarded by Col. Willard's Regiment of the Massachusetts. There was
 carried up 1062 barrels of powder. Col. Montgomery's Regiment marched
 up as a guard for the Artillery."

Towards the close of June the army, amounting to six thousand men, came
up to the "Half-Way," and headed by Rogers' Rangers, marched northward,
"formed in two columns," to the head of Lake George, where they pitched
their camp, near the ground occupied by Abercrombie the year before. The
captures of Forts Ticonderoga and Crown Point, late in July, and the
subsequent surrender of Quebec, brought in a great degree, a peace,
quiet and safety to the northern frontier to which it had long been a
stranger. [FN]

                          * * * * *

 [FN] According to the Montresor Journals, the "Half-Way Post was
 occupied by small detachments of guards as late as November, 1759, when
 the various northern outposts were abandoned as usual, and troops
 withdrawn for the winter."


Some time between 1759 and 1762, at the period following the conquest of
Canada, General Amherst granted a permit to one Geoffrey "Cooper," or
Cowper, as his name is spelled in Colonel Montresor's Journal, to whom
he was a sort of messenger or servant, to occupy the small post at
"Half-Way Brook," between Fort Edward and Lake George, for the
preservation of the barracks, etc., that had been erected there, and for
the convenience of travelers. General Amherst, according to his
despatches, deemed it unnecessary after the reduction of Canada, to
leave a garrison at that post. This Cowper was probably the first white
inhabitant of the town of Queensbury. According to tradition, he was
originally a seafaring man. He resided here several years, and, in the
town records, his name appears as having been elected to the office of
Assessor at the first town meeting held 1766.

Hardly had the sounds of warfare died away, than the pioneer's ax and
saw were heard resounding among the yellow pines in this vicinity, as
clearings were made and homesteads started.

In September, 1759, James DeLancey, Governor of the Colony of New York,
issued a proclamation calling attention to the availability for settlers
of "three Several Spotts of cleared Ground, two of them capable of
containing half a dozen Families each and the other not less than
twelve." These clearings were located on the site of the picket forts
at Green's Bridge, where the Imperial Wall Paper Mill now stands, at
the "Half-Way Brook," which was the largest one, and near the Half-Way
House, French Mountain (site of old Fort Williams).

In response to this invitation to settle in the northern wilderness, on
May 20, 1762, the Patent of Queensbury was granted to Daniel Prindle
and others, consisting of a township of twenty-three thousand acres of
land lying on the Hudson River and taking in the three clearings
heretofore mentioned. Part of this property was acquired by certain
Quakers or Friends, living at the Oblong, in Dutchess County, New York.

On August 28, 1762, Abraham Wing, the founder of the town of Queensbury,
accompanied by a surveyor, Zaccheus Towner, made his first visit to the
place which was thereafter to become the scene of his life work. He
stopped at the "Half-Way Brook" post with Jeffrey Cowper. At this time
"The Town Plot," in the center of which the memorial marker now stands,
was surveyed and laid out. This consisted of a plot of forty-four ten
acre lots, six lots deep from north to south, and eight lots deep from
east to west, forming an oblong square, intersected by central highways
and necessary roads. The center lots being reserved for public
buildings. Here, the village was to have been located, but it had been
ordained otherwise. The settlement was made at "The Falls," and nothing
but the name in legal papers now survives to show that this was once
intended to be the center of local population.

In 1763 the first attempt was made towards the permanent settlement of
the Town of Queensbury; later on the first religious structure in the
town, the original Friends' church, was erected of logs on the lot
standing on the southwesterly side of the "Half-Way Brook," on the Bay
road, and here, also, was located the first burial place in Queensbury.
Here the founders and earliest settlers of the town were laid to rest,
their place of sepulture being to-day unmarked and unknown.

During the Revolution the name of the "Half-Way Brook" appears in the
lime-light of history but a few times, although the buildings still
standing there were doubtless used by the troops passing to and fro
between Lake George and Fort Edward, till the time of the Burgoyne
Campaign. There, too, was located a ford for watering horses and cattle,
which was in use up to the present century.

According to William L. Stone, the well-known historical writer and
authority, General Burgoyne detached Baron Riedesel with three
battalions to "John's Farm between Forts George and Edward," in order
to keep open the roadway between the two places, and also to look after
and progress the provisions, stores and supplies from Lake George to
Fort Edward, preparatory to Burgoyne's advance south. In Baron
Riedesel's Memoirs, he states that "in that place he was completely cut
off from the army, so he entrenched himself in a strongly fortified camp
so that he might be able to defend himself to the last man."

The place of his encampment has been quite definitely fixed by Dr.
Holden, Mr. Stone and the late Judge William Hay, one of the best of
authorities on local matters, as having been on the site of the old
"Half-Way" block house, heretofore spoken of, on the north of the brook
and the fortified camp at the "Garrison Grounds" on the opposite or
south side of the stream. Here they remained until the 11th of
September, when the camp was broken up and the march southward begun.

After the seizure of Fort Edward by General Stark and his command, a
fortified camp commanding the Lake George road was constructed by the
Americans in the vicinity of Glens Falls, cutting off the possibility
of a retreat by Burgoyne to the northward. William L. Stone, in his
"Burgoyne's Campaign," says: "This was located on the site of Fort
Amherst." The Marquis de Chastelleux in his travels also speaks of this
camp as follows: "On leaving the valley and pursuing the road to Lake
George is a tolerable military position which was occupied in the war
before last. It is a sort of an entrenched camp, adapted to abatis,
guarding the passage from the woods and commanding the valleys." [FN]

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Stone's Burgoyne, pp. 92, 343, 344.


Assuming that this was the spot in question, the "Half-Way Brook" post
was a factor in bringing on the surrender at Saratoga, for Burgoyne's
Council of War, held Oct. 13, 1777, on being informed "that the enemy
was entrenched at the fords of Fort Edward and likewise occupied the
strong position on the Pine Plains between Fort George and Fort Edward,"
decided a retreat was impossible and an honorable capitulation should be
considered.

According to Art. IX of the Saratoga "Convention," "All Canadians and
persons connected with the Canadian Establishment," "Independent
Companies" (which included the Tories) and miscellaneous followers of
the army were to be conducted by the shortest route to the first British
post on Lake George, under the same conditions of surrender as the
regular troops. Pursuant to this agreement, soon after the capitulation
on the morning of October 17th, the defeated Royalists, under escort of
a guard of American soldiers, were marched to the "Half-Way Brook" on
their way to Canada, and from there allowed to pursue their journey to
their homes unmolested. [FN]

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Public Papers Gov. George Clinton, Vol. IX, pp. 421, 422.


During 1780, the old military road was infested with roving bands of
Tories and Indians. The last massacre of which history has record
occurred in June or July of this year, when a man by the name of Koon,
from Kingsbury, and three laborers, on their way to Fort George, were
found dead and scalped on the highway near the "Half-Way Brook." [FN]

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Holden's Queensbury, p. 477.


In the fall of 1780, Major Christopher Carleton of the 29th Regiment,
with about twelve hundred men, regulars, Tories and Indians, made his
historic raid through Kingsbury and Queensbury, capturing Fort Ann on
the 10th of October, and Fort George on the following day. At this time,
all the buildings and structures in Kingsbury and Queensbury, in the
path of the raid, were destroyed by fire by the enemy, causing 1780 to
go down in local annals as "the year of the great burning."

In order to speedily reach Fort George, Major Carleton led his forces
from Kingsbury Street directly across country, through the then existing
road [FN] entering the Lake George highway near the "Half-Way Brook"
post. Thus intimately connecting this spot once more with the stirring
events of that time.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] See Gov. Tryon's Map Vol., Doc. Hist. N. Y., also Holden's  Hist.
 Queensbury, page 479.


Holden's History of Queensbury states that Ichabod Merritt, son-in-law
of Abraham Wing, the founder, and father of Joseph, the first white
child born in this town, erected the first frame house in Queensbury,
on one of the sections of the Town Plot, near the "Half-Way Brook,"
which was burned at this time.

Connected in a way with the history of the "Half-Way Brook," is the
battle which took place at Fort Ann July 8, 1777, between the Americans
under Colonel Long and the 9th British Regiment of Burgoyne's army. The
scene of this affair is located only three-quarters of a mile from the
point where the "Half-Way Brook" enters Wood Creek at Fort Ann village,
and the semi-successful fight put up by Long's forces, was one of the
first serious interferences which Burgoyne received in his plan of
campaign. [FN]

                          * * * * *

 [FN] One of the Trustees of this Association, E. J. West, informs me
 that in 1858 William Welles erected a marble monument on the south end
 of Battle Hill to commemorate this battle. This was destroyed by an act
 of vandalism about 1870. Lately the Fort Ann "Grange" has set on foot
 a project to erect another monument in place of the former marker. It
 would seem to be proper and fitting for this Association to encourage
 and forward this movement in every possible way.


After this period the name of the "Half-Way Brook" practically
disappears from the domain of national history and enters the field
occupied by the local historian. [FN-1] In August, 1783, while on a
journey of inspection of the northern battlefields and fortifications
at Saratoga, Fort Edward, Lake George, Ticonderoga and Crown Point,
[FN-2] General Washington, accompanied by Governor Clinton, General
Alexander Hamilton, Colonels Humphreys and Fish, halted for rest and
refreshment at the "Butler Brook," one of the branches of the
"Half-Way," near the entrance to Crandall Park, and were waited on by
one Briggs at work in a neighboring field, who brought a cup and pail
and supplied water from the brook to satisfy their thirst. Two other
future Presidents of our country, Jefferson and Madison, likewise passed
through the town in 1791 to visit the many scenes of historic interest
at the north.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] Topographically, the "Half-Way Brook" in any State but New York,
 with its abundant streams and superior water power, would be entitled
 to and receive the name of river. Owing to its size and the large
 territory which it traverses, it was in the early days of the country,
 of great service commercially in building up this section of the State.
 Among the more important of the older enterprises on its banks was
 Forbes and Johnson's Forge in 1811, for making plough-shares, situated
 on the Forge Pond, an expansion of the "Half-Way," one and a half miles
 west of Glens Falls; Jeremiah Briggs' Grist and Saw Mills, at what is
 now the Brickyard, frequented from far and near, in the early part of
 the century; Champln's Tannery near the south bank on the Lake George
 road, and various saw mills, a woolen mill, and other manufacturies
 which were scattered all along the course of the brook and its
 tributaries, viz., Rocky Brook, the Meadow Run, what was then called
 "the Outlet" to the "Big Pond" (now Glen Lake), etc. It was of even
 greater commercial importance in the towns of Kingsbury and Fort Ann,
 Washington County, than in Warren County. Here, sixty years ago, were
 located at Patten's Mills, grist and saw mills; at Tripoli, grist and
 saw mills, a carding machine and trip hammer for making anchors and
 sleigh shoes; and at Kanes Falls, near Fort Ann, with a descent of
 seventy-five feet, saw and grist mills, a machine shop and carding
 machine. On the Podunk branch of the "Half-Way" was located
 Anchorville, where there was a saw mill, plaster mill, clover seed
 mill, some carding machines, a large tannery, three forges and anchor
 shops. In later times there was situated at Kanes Falls a silex mill,
 also a woolen mill. The abundant water power at this place has in
 these latter days, been made use of by the Kanes Falls Pulp Company,
 for the manufacture of that commodity. At the present time the
 principal business enterprises on the "Half-Way" in Warren County, are
 extensive brick yards, about a mile from the site of the old fort,
 three saw mills and two cider mills. In Washington County at Patten's
 Mills, there is a grist mill, and at Griswold's Mills, a saw mill and
 a grist mill. On the "branch" at West Fort Ann, is located a planer
 and cider mills. Owing to its width and the overflow of its banks in
 spring and fall, it is necessary that the brook be spanned by
 substantial bridges. In both Warren and Washington Counties strong iron
 structures have replaced the old-fashioned wooden bridges, which were
 so common in road-making but a few years ago. In Washington County,
 there is a bridge about seventy feet long near Kanes Falls, and at Fort
 Ann one in the neighborhood of fifty feet long. (Acknowledgments are
 due to Geo. M. Mead, Glens Falls, for information contained in this
 note. See Trans. N. Y. S. Agri. Socy. 1849, p. 942, for further facts.)

 [FN-2] W. L. Stone's Reminiscences of Saratoga, p. 14; Irving's
 Washington, Holly Ed., pp. 17, 18.


And so we leave this famous brook, connected with which are the names
of many of those brave men who afterward became celebrated in national
fields of glory; and bid adieu to the places made noted by the exploits
of the two Putnams, Stark, Schuyler, Warner, Stevens, Waterbury, and a
host of lesser military Colonial officers, whose experience, beginning
on the shores of this inland stream, was to serve their country in good
stead in the days which were to save our land from British thralldom.
To-day, no longer reddened by the life-blood of English and Colonial of
French and Indian, the "Half-Way" runs a clear and peaceful stream
through copse and thicket, field and meadow, swamp and swale; turning,
as it goes, the wheels of industrial progress in many a village and
hamlet, and doing its appointed work in the upbuilding of our national
prosperity. At last, merged in the yellow waters of Wood Creek, it flows
into the green depths of Lake Champlain, and then into the broad reaches
of the St. Lawrence; but before losing its identity in the surging
waters of the North Atlantic, it laves the frowning cliffs of Quebec,
thus forming a shimmering and living band, which unites for all time
the valley of the Holy Lake and the Plains of Abraham; those two
eventful spots where the French dominion received its first check and
final overthrow, thus placing, in the end, the North American Continent
forever under the progressive control of the Anglo-Saxon race.




                REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MARKING
                       HISTORICAL SPOTS.

                          * * * * *


_To the Members of the New York State Historical Association:_

At a meeting of the Committee on Marking Historical Spots, held
September 9th, 1904, Dr. Williams was made Chairman and Mr. Holden
Secretary of the Committee. After discussion of the matter, it was voted
to mark during 1905, or as soon as possible thereafter, the following
spots of the greatest historical interest, viz., "Half-Way Brook,
including Fort Amherst," "Bloody Pond," "the Burgoyne Headquarters at
Sandy Hill," and the "Old Fort at Fort Edward." Judge Ingalsbe was made
a committee on the old "Burgoyne House," Mr. Wing a committee on old
"Fort Edward," and the matter of providing suitable inscriptions for
"Half-Way Brook" and "Bloody Pond" was left to Dr. Williams and Mr.
Holden with power.

A site for the marker at Half-Way Brook having been decided on at the
intersection of Glen Street and Glenwood Avenue, on the road to Lake
George, a glacial boulder as a base for the tablet was placed in
position there through the kindness and generosity of Henry Crandall,
Glens Falls. A legal title to the spot was obtained, and the tablet
ordered from W. J. Scales, Glens Falls. In October, 1905, the tablet
was erected. It consists of a dull, natural finish plate of bronze, and
bears the following inscription:

                            HALF-WAY BROOK.

 So called because midway between Forts Edward and William Henry. From
 1755 to 1780 it was the scene of many bloody skirmishes, surprises and
 ambushes. Here the French and Indians inflicted two horrible massacres
 upon the English and Colonials. One in the summer of 1756 and the other
 in July, 1758.

                             FORT AMHERST.

 A noted military post, was midway between this marker and the
 brickyard. Its site was known locally as "The Garrison Grounds." The
 location was used as a fortified camp in 1757-58. The fort was erected
 in 1759. It was occupied by the forces of Baron Riedesel in the
 Burgoyne Campaign of 1777. It was burned in 1780 in the Carleton Raid
 at the time of the "Northern Invasion."

                          THE SEVEN MILE POST.

 Was a block house with a stockaded enclosure which occupied the rise
 of ground north of the brook and west of the road, near the residence
 of W. H. Parker, from 1755 to Revolutionary times. During that period
 it was one of the most important halting places in north America.

                         --Erected 1905 By--
              NEW YORK STATE HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.

In this connection it is only proper to add to this report that a tablet
for Bloody Pond is under way and will be erected during the coming year.
The expense of providing for these tablets was taken care of by the
following subscriptions:

        _The Contributors to the Fund for Marking Historic Spots._

    Henry Crandall,          F. B. Richards,
    William McEchron,        B. B. Fowler,
    Jonathan Coolidge,       M. Ames,
    R. A. Little,            W. M. Haskell,
    J. L. Cunningham,        S. B. Goodman,
    E. W. West,              A. W. Sherman,
    Wm. H. Robbins,          George F. Bayle,
    Sherman Williams,        S. T. Birdsall,
    Samuel Pruyn,            W. K. Bixby,
    J. A. Holden.

At the annual meeting of this Association, held in August, 1905, J. A.
Holden was selected to prepare a historical sketch concerning Half-Way
Brook, which is herewith appended.

                For the Committee,
                    SHERMAN WILLIAMS, _Chairman._
                    J. A. HOLDEN, _Secretary._




                    PUBLICATIONS RECEIVED.


                          * * * * *


 Tourists' Handbook.
 Rept. of Trustees, Pa. Soldiers' & Sailors' Home.
 Rept. of the Gettysburg National Park Commission.
 Regulations for the Government of the Gettysburg National Park.
 Officers of the State Society of Cincinnati of Georgia, 1790.
 Celebration Address of the 25th Anniversary of the Loyal Legion.
 Military Order of the Loyal Legion.
 Experience Table of the Independent Order of Odd Fellows.
 Odd Fellowship, an Oration, 40th Anniversary of I. O. of O. F.
 40th Anniversary of Opening of Present Union League House.
 Report of Valley Forge Park Commission.
 Commandery of the State of Penn.
 Rutherford Birchard Hayes.
 Gregg's Cavalry Fight at Gettysburg.
 The Story of '65.
 Brown University Catalogue, 1904 and 1905.
 The Century Association Report, 1901.
 Bulletin of Brown University, 1904 and 1905.
 The Connecticut Magazine--No. 2.
 Annual Report of the Connecticut Historical Society, 1905.
 Proceedings of the New Hampshire Historical Society, Part 3, Vol. 4.
 A History of Battery A, of St. Louis--Missouri Historical Society.
 Personal Recollections of Gen. Grant--Missouri Historical Society.
 The Public Archives of New Jersey, January 31st, 1905.
 Annual Report of Vineland Historical Society.
 The New Haven Historical Society, Nov. 1904.
 Chicago Historical Society, 1904 and 1905.
 99th Anniversary Celebration, New England Society, 1904.
 The West Virginia Historical Magazine, Vol. 5, No. 2.
 Transactions of Huguenot Society of South Carolina, No. 12.
 Third Series, Vol. VII, No. 1. Annals of Iowa.
 Third Series, Vol. VII, No. 2, Annals of Iowa.
 The Essex Institute Historical Collection, 1905. (Two Numbers.)
 Ohio Archaeological & Historical Quarterly, Vol. XIV, Jan. 1905, No. 1.
 Ohio Archaeological & Historical Quarterly, Vol. XIV, Apr. 1905, No. 2.
 The Iowa Journal of History and Politics, Vol. 3, July, 1905, No. 2.
 Public Papers of George Clinton, 1st Governor of New York, Vols.
      7 and 8.
 Massachusetts Soldiers & Sailors of Revolutionary War, Vols, 1 & 2.
 1st, 3d, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th, 13th, 14th Biennial Reports
      of Kansas State Historical Society.
 Membership List Chicago Historical So., 1905 & 1906.
 Proceedings of Vermont Historical So., 1903 & 1904.
 Essex Institute Historical Collections, October, 1905.
 Want List 1905, Library of Congress.
 History 20th Kansas Regiment.
 Directory Kansas Historical Exhibit.
 Kansas Souvenir.
 Annals of Iowa.
 Pennsylvania Society Year Book, 1905.
 99th Anniversary New England Society.
 Report of the Librarian of Congress, 1905.




                INSIGNIA OF THE NEW YORK STATE
                   HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.


                          * * * * *


The Insignia of the Association consists of a badge, the pendant of
which is circular in form, one and three-sixteenths inches in diameter.

Obverse: In the centre is represented the discovery of the Hudson River;
the "Half-Moon" is surrounded by Indian Canoes, and in the distance is
shown the Palisades. At the top is the coat-of-arms of New Amsterdam and
a tomahawk, arrow and Dutch sword. At the bottom is shown the seal of
New York State. Upon a ribbon, surrounding the centre medallion, is the
legend: New York State Historical Association, and the dates 1609 and
1899; the former being the date of the discovery of New York, and the
latter the date of the founding of the Historical Association.

Reverse: The Seal of the Association.

The badges are made of 14k gold, sterling silver and bronze, and will be
sold to members of the Association at the following prices:

 14k Gold, complete with bar and ribbon          $11.00
 Sterling Silver, complete with bar and ribbon     5.00
 Bronze, complete with bar and ribbon              4.00

Applications for badges should be made to the Secretary of the
Association, Robert O. Bascom, Fort Edward, N. Y., who will issue
permit, authorizing the member to make the purchase from the official
Jewelers, J. E. Caldwell & Co., 902 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.




                   ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION.


                          * * * * *


We, Daniel C. Farr, James A. Holden, and Elmer J. West, of Glens Falls;
Grenville M. Ingalsbe, of Sandy Hill, and Morris P. Ferris, of Dobbs
Ferry, all in the State of New York, and all of us citizens of the
United States, have associated ourselves together in a membership
corporation, and do hereby make this our certificate under the laws of
the State of New York.

The name of such corporation is the "New York State Historical
Association."

The principal objects for which said corporation is formed are:

First. To promote and encourage original historical research.

Second. To disseminate a greater knowledge of the early history of the
State, by means of lectures, and the publication and distribution of
literature on historical subjects.

Third. To gather books, manuscripts, pictures, and relics relating to
the early history of the State, and to establish a museum at Caldwell,
Lake George, for their preservation.

Fourth. To suitably mark places of historic interest.

Fifth. To acquire by purchase, gift, devise, or otherwise, the title to,
or custody and control of, historic spots and places.

The territory in which the operations of this corporation are to be
principally conducted is Warren, Washington, Essex, Clinton, Saratoga,
and Hamilton counties, in the State of New York.

The principal office of said corporation is to be located at Caldwell,
on Lake George, county of Warren, in the State of New York.

The number of directors of said corporation, to be known as the Board of
Trustees, is twenty-five.

The names and residences of the directors of said corporation, to hold
office until the first annual meeting, and who shall be known as the
Board of Trustees, are:

    James A. Roberts,          Buffalo.
    Timothy L. Woodrufif,      Brooklyn.
    Daniel C. Farr,            Glens Falls.
    Everett R. Sawyer,         Sandy Hill.
    James A. Holden,           Glens Falls.
    Robert O. Bascom,          Fort Edward.
    Morris Patterson Ferris,   Dobbs Ferry.
    Elwyn Seelye,              Lake George.
    Grenville M. Ingalsbe,     Sandy Hill.
    Frederick B. Richards,     Ticonderoga.
    Anson Judd Upson,          Glens Falls.
    Asahel R. Wing,            Fort Edward.
    William O. Stearns,        Glens Falls.
    Robert C. Alexander,       New York.
    Elmer J. West,             Glens Falls.
    Hugh Hastings,             Albany.
    Pliny T. Sexton,           Palmyra.
    William S. Ostrander,      Schuylerville.
    Sherman Williams,          Glens Falls.
    William L. Stone,          Mt. Vernon.
    Henry E. Tremain,          New York.
    William H. Tippetts,       Lake George.
    John Boulton Simpson,      Bolton.
    Harry W. Watrous,          Hague.
    Abraham B. Valentine,      New York.

The first meeting of the corporation, for the purpose of organization,
will be held on the 21st day of March, 1899.

The time for holding the annual meeting of the said corporation will be
the last Tuesday in July of each year.

In Witness Whereof, We have hereunto severally subscribed our names and
affixed our seals this 21st day of March, in the year one thousand eight
hundred and ninety-nine.

                             DANIEL C. FARR,        (L. S.)
                             JAMES A. HOLDEN,       (L. S.)
                             ELMER J. WEST,         (L. S.)
                             GRENVILLE M. INGALSBE, (L. S.)
                             MORRIS P. FERRIS.      (L. S.)

  State of New York.
    County of Warren.

On this 21st day of March, in the year one thousand eight hundred and
ninety-nine, before me personally appeared Daniel C. Farr, James A.
Holden, Elmer J. West, Grenville M. Ingalsbe, and Morris Patterson
Ferris, to me known to be the individuals described in and who executed
the foregoing articles of incorporation, and they duly severally
acknowledged to me that they executed the same.

                                 E. T. JOHNSON,
  [seal.]                             _Notary Public._




                  CHARTER OF NEW YORK STATE
                   HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.


                          * * * * *


Whereas, A petition for incorporation by the University has been duly
received, containing satisfactory statements made under oath as to the
objects and plans of the proposed corporation, and as to the provision
made for needed buildings, furniture, equipment, and for maintenance.

Therefore, Being satisfied that all requirements prescribed by law or
University ordinance for such an association have been fully met, and
that public interests justify such action, the Regents by virtue of the
authority conferred on them by law, hereby incorporate James A. Roberts,
Daniel C. Farr, James A. Holden, Morris Patterson Ferris, Grenville M.
Ingalsbe, Anson Judd Upson, Robert C. Alexander, Hugh Hastings, William
S. Ostrander, William L. Stone, William H. Tippetts, Harry W. Watrous,
William O. Stearns, Timothy L. Woodruff, Everett R. Sawyer, Robert O.
Bascom, Elwyn Seelye, Frederick B. Richards, Asahel R. Wing, Elmer J.
West, Pliny T. Sexton, Sherman Williams, Henry E. Tremain, John Boulton
Simpson, Abraham B. Valentine, and their successors in office under the
corporate name of

              NEW YORK STATE HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.

This corporation shall be located at Caldwell, Warren county, New York.

Its first trustees shall be the twenty-five above-named incorporators.

Its object shall be to promote historical research, to disseminate
knowledge of the history of the State by lectures and publications, to
establish a library and museum at Caldwell, to mark places of historic
interest, and to acquire custody or control of historic places.

          In Witness Whereof, The Regents grant this charter, No. 1,245,
          under seal of the University, at the Capitol at Albany, April
 [seal.]  24, 1899.

                                 ANSON JUDD UPSON, _Chancellor._
  Melvil Dewey, _Secretary._




                         CONSTITUTION.


                          * * * * *


                          ARTICLE I.

                            Name.

This Society shall be known as "New York State Historical Association."

                          ARTICLE II.

                            Objects.

Its objects shall be:

First. To promote and encourage original historical research.

Second. To disseminate a greater knowledge of the early history of the
State, by means of lectures and the publication and distribution of
literature on historical subjects.

Third. To gather books, manuscripts, pictures, and relics relating to
the early history of the State, and to establish a museum at Caldwell,
Lake George, for their preservation.

Fourth. To suitably mark places of historic interest.

Fifth. To acquire by purchase, gift, devise, or otherwise, the title to,
or custody and control of, historic spots and places.

                           ARTICLE III.

                             Members.

Section 1. Members shall be of three classes--Active, Corresponding,
and Honorary. Active members only shall have a voice in the management
of the Society.

Section 2. All persons interested in American history shall be eligible
for Active membership.

Section 3. Persons residing outside the State of New York, interested
in historical investigation, may be made Corresponding members.

Section 4. Persons who have attained distinguished eminence as
historians may be made Honorary members.

                              ARTICLE IV.

                              Management.

Section 1. The property of the Association shall be vested in, and the
affairs of the Association conducted by, a Board of Trustees to be
elected by the Association. Vacancies in the Board of Trustees shall be
filled by the remaining members of the Board, the appointee to hold
office until the next annual meeting of the Association.

Section 2. The Board of Trustees shall have power to suspend or expel
members of the Association for cause, and to restore them to membership
after a suspension or expulsion. No member shall be suspended or
expelled without first having been given ample opportunity to be heard
in his or her own defense.

Section 3. The first Board of Trustees shall consist of those designated
in the Articles of Incorporation, who shall meet as soon as may be after
the adoption of this Constitution and divide themselves into three
classes of, as nearly as may be, eight members each, such classes to
serve respectively, one until the first annual meeting, another until
the second annual meeting, and the third until the third annual meeting
of the Association. At each annual meeting the Association shall elect
eight or nine members (as the case may be) to serve as Trustees for the
ensuing three years, to fill the places of the class whose term then
expires.

Section 4. The Board of Trustees shall have no power to bind the
Association to any expenditure of money beyond the actual resources of
the Association except by the consent of the Board of Trustees,
expressed in writing and signed by every member thereof.

                              ARTICLE V.

                               Officers.

Section 1. The officers of the Association shall be a President, three
Vice-Presidents, a Treasurer, a Secretary, and an Assistant Secretary,
all of whom shall be elected by the Board of Trustees from its own
number, at its first meeting after the annual meeting of the
Association, and shall hold office for one year, or until their
successors are chosen. Temporary officers shall be chosen by the
Incorporators to act until an election as aforesaid, by the Board of
Trustees.

Section 2. The Board of Trustees may appoint such other officers,
committees, or agents, and delegate to them such powers as it sees fit,
for the prosecution of its work.

Section 3. Vacancies in any office or committee may be filled by the
Board of Trustees.

                              ARTICLE VI.

                             Fees and Dues.

Section 1. Each person on being elected to Active Membership shall pay
into the Treasury of the Association the sum of two dollars, and
thereafter on the first day of January in each year a like sum, for his
or her annual dues.

Section 2. Any member of the Association may commute his or her annual
dues by the payment of twenty-five dollars at one time, and thereby
become a life member exempt from further payments.

Section 3. Any member may secure membership which shall descend to a
member of his or her family qualified under the Constitution and By-Laws
of the Association for membership therein, in perpetuity, by the payment
at one time of two hundred and fifty dollars. The person to hold the
membership may be designated in writing by the creator of such
membership, or by the subsequent holder thereof subject to the approval
of the Board of Trustees.

Section 4. All receipts from life and perpetual memberships shall be set
aside and invested as a special fund, the income only to be used for
current expenses.

Section 5. Honorary and Corresponding Members and persons who hold
perpetual memberships shall be exempt from the payment of dues.

Section 6. The Board of Trustees shall have power to excuse the
nonpayment of dues, and to suspend or expel members for non-payment when
their dues remain unpaid for more than six months.

                              ARTICLE VII.

                             Meetings.

Section 1. The annual meeting of the Association shall be held on the
last Tuesday of July in each year. Notice thereof shall be sent to each
member at least ten days prior thereto.

Section 2. Special meetings of the Association may be called at any time
by the Board of Trustees, and must be called upon the written request of
ten members. The notice of such meeting shall specify the object thereof,
and no business shall be transacted thereat excepting that designated
in the notice.

Section 3. Ten members shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of the
Association.

Section 4. The Board of Trustees shall arrange for the holding of a
series of meetings at Lake George during the summer months, for the
readings of original papers on history and kindred subjects, and for
social intercourse between the members and their guests.

                              ARTICLE VIII.

                                   Seal.

The seal of the Association shall be a group of statuary representing
the Mohawk Chief, King Hendrick, in the act of proving to Gen. William
Johnson the unwisdom of dividing his forces on the eve of the battle of
Lake George. Around this a circular band bearing the legend, New York
State Historical Association, 1899.

                              ARTICLE IX.

                              Amendments.

Amendments to the Constitution may be made at any annual meeting, or at
a special meeting called for that purpose. Notice of a proposed
amendment with a copy thereof must have been mailed to each member at
least thirty days before the day upon which action is taken thereon.

The adoption of an amendment shall require the favorable vote of
two-thirds of those present at a duly-constituted meeting of the
Association.




                           BY-LAWS.


                          * * * * *


                          ARTICLE I.

                           Members.

Candidates for membership in the Association shall be proposed by one
member and seconded by another, and shall be elected by the Board of
Trustees. Three adverse votes shall defeat an election.

                          ARTICLE II

                       Board of Trustees.

Section 1. The Board of Trustees may make such rules for its own
government as it may deem wise, and which shall not be inconsistent with
the Constitution and By-Laws of the Association. Five members of the
Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.

Section 2. The Board of Trustees shall elect one of their own number to
preside at the meetings of the Board in the absence of the President.

Section 3. The Board of Trustees shall at each annual meeting of the
Association render a full report of its proceedings during the year last
past.

Section 4. The Board of Trustees shall hold at least four meetings in
each year. At each of such meetings it shall consider and act upon the
names of candidates proposed for membership.

Section 5. The Board of Managers shall each year appoint committees to
take charge of the annual gathering of the Association at Lake George.

                          ARTICLE III

                           President.

The President shall preside at all meetings of the Association and of
the Board of Trustees, and perform such other duties as may be delegated
to him by the Association or the Board of Trustees. He shall be
ex-officio a member of all committees.

                          ARTICLE IV.

                         Vice-Presidents.

The Vice-Presidents shall be denominated First, Second, and Third
Vice-Presidents. In the absence of the President his duties shall
devolve upon the senior Vice-President present.

                          ARTICLE V.

                          Treasurer.

Section 1. The Treasurer shall have charge of all the funds of the
Association. He shall keep accurate books of account, which shall at all
times be open to the inspection of the Board of Trustees. He shall
present a full and comprehensive statement of the Association's
financial condition, its receipts and expenditures, at each annual
meeting, and shall present a brief statement to the Board of Trustees
at each meeting. He shall pay out money only on the approval of the
majority of the Executive Committee, or on the resolution of the Board
of Trustees.

Section 2. Before assuming the duties of his office, the Treasurer-elect
shall with a surety to be approved by the Board execute to the
Association his bond in the sum of one thousand dollars, conditioned
for the faithful performance of his duties as Treasurer.

Section 3. The President shall, thirty days prior to the annual meeting
of the Association, appoint two members of the Association who shall
examine the books and vouchers of the Treasurer and audit his accounts,
and present their report to the Association at its annual meeting.

                           ARTICLE VI.

                           Secretary.

The Secretary shall preserve accurate minutes of the transactions of
the Association and of the Board of Trustees, and shall conduct the
correspondence of the Association. He shall notify the members of
meetings, and perform such other duties as he may be directed to perform
by the Association or by the Board of Trustees. He may delegate any
portion of his duties to the Assistant Secretary.

                           ARTICLE VII.

                       Executive Committee.

The officers of the Association shall constitute an Executive Committee.
Such Committee shall direct the business of the Association between
meetings of the Board of Trustees, but shall have no power to establish
or declare a policy for the Association, or to bind it in any way except
in relation to routine work. The Committee shall have no power to direct
a greater expenditure than fifty dollars without the authority of the
Board of Trustees.

                          ARTICLE VIII.

                           Procedure.

Section 1. The following, except when otherwise ordered by the
Association, shall be the order of business at the annual meetings of
the Association:

 Call to order.
 Reading of minutes of previous annual, and of any special meeting, and
   acting thereon.
 Reports of Officers and Board of Trustees.
 Reports of Standing Committees.
 Reports of Special Committees.
 Unfinished business.
 Election.
 New business.
 Adjournment.

Section 2. The procedure at all meetings of the Association and of the
Board of Trustees, where not provided for in this Constitution and
By-Laws, shall be governed by Roberts' Rules of Order.

Section 3. The previous question shall not be put to vote at any meeting
unless seconded by at least three members.

Section 4. All elections shall be by ballot, except where only one
candidate is nominated for an office.

Section 5. All notices shall be sent personally or by mail to the
address designated in writing by the member to the Secretary.

                          ARTICLE IX.

                       Nominating Committee.

A committee of three shall be chosen by the Association at its annual
meeting, to nominate Trustees to be voted for at the next annual
meeting. Such Committee shall file its report with the Secretary of this
Association at least thirty days prior to the next annual meeting. The
Secretary shall mail a copy of such report to every member of the
Association with the notice of the annual meeting at which the report
is to be acted upon. The action of such Committee shall, however, in no
wise interfere with the power of the Association to make its own
nominations, but all such independent nominations shall be sent to the
Secretary at least twenty days prior to the annual meeting. A copy
thereof shall be sent to each member by the Secretary with the notice
of meeting, and shall be headed "Independent Nominations." If the
Nominating Committee fails for any reason to make its report so that it
may be sent out with the notice of the annual meeting, the Society may
make its own nominations at such annual meeting.

                          ARTICLE X.

                         Amendments.

These By-Laws may be amended at any duly-constituted meeting of the
Association by a two-thirds vote of the members present. Notice of the
proposed amendment with a copy thereof must have been mailed to each
member at least twenty days before the day upon which action thereon is
taken.




                    MEMBERS NEW YORK STATE
                    HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.

                          * * * * *

                      HONORARY MEMBERS.

   *Dr. Edward Eggleston,              Joshua's Rock, N. Y.
    E. M. Ruttenber,                   Newburgh, N. Y.

  [*Deceased.]

                          * * * * *

                      CORRESPONDING MEMBER.

    Berthold Fernow,                   Trenton, N. J,

                          * * * * *

                         LIFE MEMBERS.

    W. K. Bixby,                       Bolton, N. Y.
    Mrs. Marcellus Hartley,            232 Madison Ave., N. Y. City.
    Mrs. Oliver Livingston Jones,      116 W. 72d St., N. Y. City.
    Mrs. Horace See,                   50 W. 9th St., N. Y. City.
    Gen. Henry E. Tremain,             105 E. 18th St., N. Y. City.
    Dr. W. Seward Webb,                51 E. 44th St., N. Y. City.
   *Samuel P. Avery,                   4 E. 38th St., N. Y. City.
    F. D. Howland,                     Sandy Hill, N. Y.
    Frank S. Witherbee,                Port Henry, N. Y.
    Cortland de Peyster Field,         Peekskill, N. Y.

   *Deceased.

                          * * * * *

                           MEMBERS.

    Abbott, Rev. Dr. Lyman             "The Outlook," 287 Fourth Ave.,
                                            New York.
    Abrams, A. W.                      Illion.
    Alexander, Hon. D. S.              Buffalo.
    Allen, Hiram                       Sandy Hill.
    Ames, Edgar M.                     Fort Edward.
    Applegate, Rev. Dr. Octavius       Newburgh.
    Arnold, Hon. Alvaro D.             Sandy Hill.
    Arthur, Miss L. Louise             Woodside.
    Atkins, Hon. T. Astley             73 Nassau St., N. Y.

    Backus, Dr. Truman J.              Packer Institute, Brooklyn.
    Baker, Frederick I.                Fort Ann.
    Ballard, W. J.                     Jamaica.
    Banker, Dr. Silas J.               Fort Edward.
    Bascom, Robert O.                  Fort Edward.
    Bassinger, George H.               Glens Falls.
    Batcheller, George Clinton         237 W. 72d St., N. Y.
    Benedict, George Grenville         Burlington, Vt.
    Benjamin, Rev. Dr. Wm. H.          Irvington-on-Hudson.
    Bishop, Charles F.                 67 Wall St., N. Y.
    Blake, Rev. Chas. W.               Lake George.
    Bloodgood, Clarence E.             Catskill.
    Brackett, Hon. Edgar Truman        Saratoga Springs.
    Brandow, Rev. John H.              Schoharie.
    Brown, Ernest C.                   280 Broadway, N. Y.
    Brook, James B.                    1013 East Adams St., Syracuse.
    Broughton, H. L.                   Sandy Hill.
    Bullard, Dr. T. E.                 Schuylerville.
    Bunten, Roland                     Garden City.
    Burdge, Franklin                   325 W. 57th St. N. Y.
    Burnham, George,                   3401 Powelton Ave., Philadelphia,
                                            Pa.
    Bushnell, Nathan Piatt             Peekskill.

    Cady, S. Rider                     Hudson.
    Carter, Robert C.                  Glens Falls.
    Cheney, Dr. Francis L.             Cortland.
    Clark, Walter A.                   755 Main St., Geneva.
    Clark, Rev. Joseph B.              4th Ave. and 22nd St., N. Y.
    Clowe, Chas. Waldron               280 Broadway, N. Y.
    Cole, Norman                       Glens Falls.
    Conway, John B.                    Argyle.
    Cook, Dr. Joseph Tottenham         636 Delaware Ave., Buffalo.
    Cook, Joseph Mrs.                  Ticonderoga.
    Cook, J. Hervey                    Fishkill-on-Hudson.
    Cooke, Rev. Jere K.                Hempstead.
    Cooley, Dr. James S.               Glen Cove.
    Coolidge, Thomas S.                Glens Falls.
    Coon, Hon. Stephen Mortimer        Oswego.
    Cornell, S. Douglas                Cobourg, Ont.
    Cunningham, Col. J. L.             Glens Falls.
    Columbia University Library,       116th St., New York.

    Davis, William Gilbert             32 Nassau St., N. Y.
    Davis, Dr. Booth C.                Alfred.
    Day, Benjamin                      Hague.
    DeLong, C. J.                      Glens Falls.
    Demuth, William                    507 Broadway, N. Y.
    Denham, Edward                     New Bedford, Mass.
    Denton, Mrs. Elizabeth B.          Sandy Hill.
    de Peyster, Mrs. Beekman           2345 Broadway, N. Y. (winter),
                                         Johnstown (summer).
    Derby, Hon. John H.                Sandv Hill.
    Derby, Archibald Stewart           Sandy Hill.
    Digney, John M.                    White Plains.
    Doane, Rt. Rev. C. W.              Albany.
    Doolittle, C. M.                   Schuylerville.
    Draper, Hon. A. S.                 Albany.
    Dunnell, Rev. Dr. Wm. Nichols      292 Henry St., N. Y.
    Durkee, James H.                   Sandy Hill.
    Dwyer, Major John                  Sandy Hill.

    Elting, Philip                     278 Wall St., Kingston.
    Eveleth, Dr. George S.             Little Falls.

    Fairley, William                   195 Kingston Ave., Brooklyn.
    Ferree, Barr                       7 Warren Street, N. Y.
    Ferris, Morris Patterson           676 West End Ave., N. Y.
    Fowler, Albert N. C.               Glens Falls.

    Gillespie, Nelson                  Hoosick Falls.
    Gilman, Hon. Theodore P.           425 West End Ave., N. Y.
    Green, James                       Lake George.
    Griffith, Prof. E. W.              Glens Falls.
    Gunnison, Hon. Royal A.            Juneau, Alaska.

    Hatch, Hon. Edward W.              Appellate Division, New York.
    Haight, Hon. Albert                Albany (Court of Appeals).
    Hall, Fred J.                      Tarrytown.
    Halsey, Frances W.                 146 W. 119th St., N. Y.
    Hastings, Hon. Hugh                Albany.
    Hatch, Rev. W. H. P.               South Hartford.
    Hatfield, Addie E.                 17 Linwood Place, Utica.
    Hawkins, George H.                 Plattsburgh.
    Hayden, Henry W.                   120 Broadway, N. Y
    Hewitt, Fred W.                    Granville.
    Higgins, Hon. Frank W.             Olean.
    Hill, E. B.                        49 Wall St., N. Y.
    Holden, Mrs. J. A.                 Glens Falls.
    Holden, James A.                   Glens Falls.
    Hopson, Rev. Dr. George B.         Annandale.
    Horton, Mrs. John Miller           736 Main St., Buffalo.
    Horton, Dr. Everest T.             Whitehall.
    Horton, Dr. Claude A.              Glens Falls.
    Howard, Hon. Harry A.              Glens Falls.
    Hull, Frank S.                     Newburgh.
    Hull, Philip M.                    Clinton.
    Heilner, Samuel                    Broad and Chestnut St., Phila. Pa.

    Imrie, Daniel F.                   Lake George.
    Ingalsbe, Miss Myra L.             Hartford.
    Ingalsbe, Grenville H.             Sandy Hill.
    Ingalsbe, Franc Groesbeck          Sandy Hill.
    Ingalsbe, Hon. Grenville M.        Sandy Hill.
    Ingalls, George A.                 Sandy Hill.
    Ingraham, Dr. Charles A.           Cambridge.

    James, D. Willis                   40 East 39th St., N. Y.
    Jackson, Rev. Dr. T. G.            68 St. Paul's Place, Brooklyn.
    Jessup, Morris K.                  195 Madison Ave., N. Y.
    Jessup, Rev. Charles A.            Greenport.
    Joline, Dr. Adrien H.              54 Wall St., N. Y.
    Jordan, Warren S.                  984 Main St., Peekskill.

    Kellogg, Rev. Dr. Charles D.       Sandy Hill.
    Kellogg, J. Augustus               Glens Falls.
    King, Rev. Dr. Joseph E.           Fort Edward.
    King, Charles T.                   Glens Falls.
    Kirby, Dr. R. M.                   Potsdam.
    Knapp, George P.                   Lake George.
    Kniel, T. R.                       Saratoga Springs.
    Krotel, Rev. Dr. G. F.             65 Convent Ave., N. Y.

    Ladd, Neil M.                      646 Fulton St., Brooklyn.
    Lansing, Mrs. Abraham              115 Washington Ave., Albany.
    Lange, Gustave                     257 Broadway, N. Y.
    Lapham, Byron                      Glens Falls.
    Law, Robert R.                     Cambridge.
    Leary, Russell W.                  147 W. 91st St., N. Y.
    Lefferts, Marshall C.              30 Washington Place, N. Y.
    Lewis, George C.                   Albany.
    Little, Dr. George W.              Glens Falls.
    Little, Russell A.                 Glens Falls.
    Lyttle, Dr. E. W.                  Albany.

    Mace, Dr. William H.               127 College Place, Syracuse.
    Mann, William D.                   Hague.
    Marsh, Wallace T.                  Glens Falls.
    Martin, John                       Plattsburgh.
    Martine, Dr. G. R.                 Glens Falls.
    Matthews, George E.                Buffalo.
    McAneny, George                    19 E. 47th St., N. Y.
    McCarthy, James                    Sandy Hill.
    McLean, Mrs. Donald                186 Lenox Ave., N. Y.
    Meredith, Mrs. Louise Hardenburgh  San Luis Obispo, Cal.
    Messer, L. Franklin                403 Main St., Buffalo.
    Michael, Edward                    741 Delaware Ave., Buffalo.
    Mills, D. O.                       634 Fifth Ave., N. Y.
    Mills, Col. Stephen C. (U. S. A.)  Governor's Island, N. Y. Harbor.
    Moore, Commodore John W.           Bolton Landing.
    Morgan. Rev. Dr. D. Parker         3 E. 45th St., N. Y.
    Morton, Hon. Levi Parsons          681 Fifth Ave., N. Y.
    Mott, Dr. O. H.                    Fort Edward.
    Munger, Rev. Dr. R. D.             105 Delaware St., Syracuse.

    Near, Irwin W.                     Hornellsville.
    Nelson, Venerable Dr. Geo. F.      29 Lafayette Place, N. Y.
    Newcomb, Alvah S.                  33 Washington Ave., Albany.
    Nottingham, William                701 Walnut St., Syracuse.

    O'Brien, M. J.                     195 Broadway, N. Y.
    Olmstead, Rt. Rev. Chas. Tyler     159 Park Ave., Utica.

    Paige, Edward Winslow              44 Cedar St., N. Y.
    Parry, Mrs. J. E.                  Glens Falls.
    Payne, Silas H.                    Silver Bay.
    Peabody, George Foster             54 William St., New York.
    Peck, Gen. T. S.                   Burlington, Vt.
    Peck, Reuben N.                    Glens Falls.
    Pell, Howland                      7 Pine St., N. Y.
    Prince, Rev. Dr. Walter Franklin   16 S. Elliott Place, Brooklyn.
    Potter, Delcour S.                 Glens Falls.
    Pryer, Charles                     New Rochelle.

    Ransom, Frank H.                   137 Main St., Buffalo.
    Ransom, Hon. Rastus S.             128 Broadway, N. Y.
    Raymond, Rev. Dr. A. V. V.         Schenectady.
    Reid, W. Max                       Amsterdam.
    Reid, Hon. Whitelaw                New York.
    Rhoades, W. C. P.                  400 Putnam Ave., Brooklyn.
    Richards, Frederick B.             Ticonderoga.
    Richardson, Rev. George L.         Glens Falls.
    Richards, A. N.                    Sandy Hill.
    Roberts, Joseph Banks              141 Broadway, N. Y.
    Roberts, Mrs. James A.             256 Broadway, N. Y.
    Roberts, Hon. James A.             256 Broadway, N. Y.
    Rogers, Howard J.                  Education Dept., Albany.
    Rowell, George C.                  81 Chapel St., Albany.

   Samson, William H.                  420 Oxford St., Rochester.
   Sanford, Clarence T.                Lake George.
   Sawyer, W, L.                       Sandy Hill.
   Sawyer, Dr. Edward R.               Sandy Hill.
   Schuyler, Miss Fanny                New Rochelle.
   Schuyler, Rev. Dr. Livingston Rowe  17 Lexington Ave., N. Y.
   Schell, F. Robert                   280 Broadway, N. Y.
   Seabury, Rev. Dr. Wm. Jones         8 Chelsea Sq., N. Y.
   Sebring, William C.                 Kingston, N. Y.
   Seelye, Elwyn                       Lake George.
   Sexton, Mrs. Pliny T.               Palmyra.
   Sexton, Hon. Pliny T.               Palmyra.
   Sidway, Mrs. Frank St. John         37 Oakland Place, Buffalo.
   Sills, Dr. Charles Morton           Geneva.
   Sill, Dr. Frederick S.              169 Mohawk St., Cohoes.
   Silver, Dr. John Archer             Geneva.
   Simpson, John Boulton               1170 Broadway, N. Y.
   Sims, Charles N.                    Liberty, Indiana.
   Shedden, Hon. Lucian L.             Plattsburgh.
   Shephard, Dr. Edward M.             Lake George.
   Slicer, Rev. Thomas R.              New York City.
   Smith, Wm. Alex.                    412 Madison Ave., N. Y.
   Smith, T. Guilford                  Buffalo.
   Smith, James F.                     South Hartford.
   Spencer, Dr. Chas. W.               Princeton, N. J.
   Stackpole, George F.                Riverhead.
   State Normal and Training School    Plattsburgh.
   Stearns, Rev. W. O.                 Glens Falls.
   Steele, Mrs. Esther B.              352 W. Clinton St., Elmira.
   Stevens, Rev. Dr. C. Ellis          111 Montague St., Brooklyn.
   Stevens, Benjamin F.                Boston, Mass.
   Stieglitz, Edward                   Bolton.
   Stilwell, Giles H.                  1906 W. Genesee St., Syracuse.
   Stillman, Dr. William Olin          287 State St., Albany.
   Stone, Col. William L.              Mt. Vernon.

   Tefft, Richard C.                   Sandy Hill.
   Temple, Truman R.                   Granville.

   Upson, Mrs. Lvdia F.                Glens Falls.

   Vanderveer, Dr. A.                  28 Eagle St., Albany.
   Van Hee, Daniel L.                  Rochester
   Vann, Hon. Irving G.                Syracuse.
   Van Wormer, Rodney                  Argyle.
   Vynne, Mrs. Emma M.                 Hague.

   Wait, William                       Kinderhook.
   Wakeman, Abram                      136 Front St., N. Y.
   Wallander, A. W.                    Mt. Vernon.
   Waller, Rev. Henry D.               Flushing.
   Warren, E. Burgess                  Lake George.
   Watrous, Harry W.                   Hague.
   Watrous, Mrs. Harry W.              Hague and 352 Lexington Avenue,
                                             N. Y.
   Watson, Col. James T.               Clinton.
   Webster, Dr. W. B.                  Schuylerville.
   Welch, Miss J. M.                   76 Johnson Park, Buffalo.
   West, Chandler A.                   Lake George.
   West, Elmer J.                      Glens Falls.
   Westover, Myron N.                  Schenectady.
   Wetmore, Edmond                     34 Pine St., N. Y.
   Wicker, Miss Julia Frances          Ticonderoga.
   Willey, Rev. John H.                466 East 18th St., Brooklyn.
   Williams, Dr. Sherman               Glens Falls.
   Williams, Charles H.                690 Delaware Ave., Buffalo.
   Willis, James D.                    40 East 39th St., N. Y.
   Wilson, Henry Applegate             574 Madison St., Brooklyn.
   Wing, Asahel R.                     Fort Edward.
   Wright, Miss Abbie A.               Sandy Hill.
   Woodruff, Hon. Timothy L.           8th Ave. and 18th St., Brooklyn.
   Woodard, Hon. John                  Appellate Division, Brooklyn.
   Worden, Edwin J.                    Lake George.
   Wyckoff, Alice Brooks               Elmira.

The Secretary will thank members for corrections to this list.




[Illustration: Map of Hudson's River, part 1.]

[Illustration: Map of Hudson's River, part 2.]

[Illustration: Map of New Netherlands, part 1.]

[Illustration: Map of New Netherlands, part 2.]




                    FOOTPRINTS OF THE RED MEN.


                          * * * * *


                     Indian Geographical Names


                  IN THE VALLEY OF HUDSON'S RIVER,
                    THE VALLEY OF THE MOHAWK,
                      AND ON THE DELAWARE:
                  THEIR LOCATION AND THE PROBABLE
                     MEANING OF SOME OF THEM.


                          * * * * *

                             BY
                       E. M. RUTTENBER,
    _Author of "History of the Indian Tribes of Hudson's River."_


                          * * * * *


"Indian place-names are not proper names, that is unmeaning words, but
significant appellatives each conveying a description of the locality
to which it belongs."--_Trumbull._


                          * * * * *


                 PUBLISHED UNDER THE AUSPICES
                           OF THE
             New York State Historical Association.




                          * * * * *


                     Copyrighted by the

               NEW YORK STATE HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.
                            1906.


                          * * * * *



                         {INDEX p. 237}



                      Primary Explanations.


                          * * * * *


The locatives of the Indian geographical names which have been handed
down as the names of boundmarks or of places or tribes, are properly a
subject of study on the part of all who would be familiar with the
aboriginal geography of a district or a state. In many cases these names
were quite as designative of geographical centers as are the names of
the towns, villages and cities which have been substituted for them. In
some cases they have been wisely retained, while the specific places to
which they belonged have been lost. In this work special effort has been
made, first, to ascertain the places to which the names belonged as
given in official records, to ascertain the physical features of those
places, and carry back the thought to the poetic period of our
territorial history, "when the original drapery in which nature was
enveloped under the dominion of the laws of vegetation, spread out in
one vast, continuous interminable forest," broken here and there by the
opened patches of corn-lands and the wigwams and villages of the
redmen; secondly, to ascertain the meanings of the aboriginal names,
recognizing fully that, as Dr. Trumbull wrote, "They were not proper
names or mere unmeaning marks, but significant appellatives conveying a
description of the locatives to which they were given." Coming down to
us in the crude orthographies of traders and unlettered men, they are
not readily recognized in the orthographies of the educated missionaries,
and especially are they disguised by the varying powers of the German,
the French, and the English alphabets in which they were written by
educated as well as by uneducated scribes, and by traders who were
certainly not very familiar with the science of representing spoken
sounds by letters. In one instance the same name appears in forty-nine
forms by different writers. Many names, however, have been recognized
under missionary standards and their meanings satisfactorily ascertained,
aided by the features of the localities to which they were applied; the
latter, indeed, contributing very largely to their interpretation.
Probably the reader will find geographical descriptions that do not
apply to the places where the name is now met. The early settlers made
many transfers as well as extensions of names from a specific place to
a large district of country. It must be remembered that original
applications were specific to the places which they described even
though they were generic and applicable to any place where the same
features were referred to. The locatives in Indian deeds and original
patents are the only guide to places of original application, coupled
with descriptive features where they are known.

No vocabularies of the dialects spoken in the lower valley of the Hudson
having been preserved, the vocabularies of the Upper-Unami and the
Minsi-Lenape, or Delaware tongues on the south and west, and the Natick,
or Massachusetts, on the north and east, have been consulted for
explanations by comparative inductive methods, and also orthographies
in other places, the interpretations of which have been established by
competent linguists. In all cases where the meaning of terms has been
particularly questioned, the best expert authority has been consulted.
While positive accuracy is not asserted in any case, it is believed that
in most cases the interpretations which have been given may be accepted
as substantially correct. There is no poetry in them--no "glittering
waterfalls," no "beautiful rivers," no "smile of the Great Spirit," no
"Holy place of sacred feasts and dances," but plain terms that have
their equivalents in our own language for a small hill, a high hill, a
mountain, a brook, a creek, a kill, a river, a pond, a lake, a swamp,
a large stone, a place of small stones, a split rock, a meadow, or
whatever the objective feature may have been as recognized by the
Indian. Many of them were particular names in the form of verbals
indicating a place where the action of the verb was performed;
occasionally the name of a sachem is given as that of his place of
residence or the stream on which he resided, but all are from generic
roots.

To the Algonquian dialects spoken in the valley of Hudson's River at the
time of the discovery, was added later the Mohawk--Iroquorian, to some
extent, more particularly on the north, where it appears about 1621-6,
as indicated in the blanket deed given by the Five Nations to King
George in 1726. Territorially, in the primary era of European invasion,
the Eastern Algonquian prevailed, in varying idioms, on both sides of
the river, from a northern point to the Katskills, and from thence south
to the Highlands a type of the Unami-Minsi-Lenape or Delaware. That
spoken around New York on both sides of the river, was classed by the
early Dutch writers as Manhattan, as distinguished from dialects in the
Highlands and from the Savano or dialects of the East New England coast.
North of the Highlands on both sides of the river, they classed the
dialect as Wapping, and from the Katskills north as Mahican or Mohegan,
preserved in part in what is known as the Stockbridge. Presumably the
dialects were more or less mixed and formed as a whole what may be
termed "The Hudson's River Dialect," radically Lenape or Delaware, as
noted by Governor Tryon in 1774. In local names we seem to meet the
Upper-Unami and the Minsi of New Jersey, and the Mohegan and the Natick
of the north and east, the Quiripi of the Sound, and the dialect of the
Connecticut Valley. In the belt of country south of the Katskills they
were soft and vocalic, the lingual mute _t_ frequently appearing and
_r_ taking the place of the Eastern _l_ and _n._ In the Minsi (Del.)
Zeisberger wrote _l_ invariably, as distinguished from _r,_ which
appears in the earliest local names in the valley of the Hudson. Other
dialectic peculiarities seem to appear in the exchange of the sonant
_g_ for the hard sound of the surd mute _k,_ and of _p_ for _g,_ _s_
for _g,_ and _t_ for _d,_ _st_ for _gk,_ etc. Initials are badly mixed,
presumably due in part at least, to the habit of Indian speakers in
throwing the sound of the word forward to the penult; in some cases to
the lack of an "Indian ear" on the part of the hearer.

In structure all Algonquian dialects are Polysynthetic, _i. e.,_ words
composed wholly or in part of other words or generic roots. Pronunciations
and inflections differ as do the words in meaning in many cases. In all
dialects the most simple combinations appear in geographical names,
which the late Dr. J. H. Trumbull resolved into three classes, viz.:
"I. Those formed by the union of two elements, which we will call
_adjectival_ and _substantival,_ or ground-word, with or without a
locative suffix, or post-position word meaning 'at,' 'in,' 'on,' 'near,'
etc. [I use the terms 'adjectival' and 'substantival,' because no true
adjectives or substantives enter into the composition of Algonquian
names. The adjectival may be an adverb or a preposition; the
substantival element is often a verbal, which serves in composition as
a generic name, but which cannot be used as an independent word--the
synthesis always retains the verbal form.] II. Those which have a single
element, the _substantival,_ or ground-word, with locative suffix.
III. Those formed from verbs as participials or verbal nouns, denoting
a place where the action of the verb is performed. Most of these latter,
however," he adds, "may be shown by strict analysis to belong to one of
the two preceding classes, which comprise at least nine-tenths of all
Algonquian local names which have been preserved." For example, in Class
I, _Wapan-aki_ is a combination of _Wapan,_ "the Orient," "the East,"
and _aki,_ "Land, place or country," _unlimited;_ with locative suffix
(_-ng,_ Del., _-it,_ Mass.), "In the East Land or Country." _Kit-ann-ing,_
Del., is a composition from _Kitschi,_ "Chief, principal, greatest,"
_hanné,_ "river," and _ing_ locative, and reads, "A place at or on the
largest river." The suffix _-aki, -acki, -hacki,_ Del., meaning "Land,
place, or country, _unlimited,_" in Eastern orthographies _-ohke, -auke,
-ague, -ke, -ki,_ etc., is changed to _-kamik,_ or _-kamike,_ Del.,
_-kamuk_ or _-komuk,_ Mass., in describing "Land or place _limited,_" or
enclosed, a particular place, as a field, garden, and also used for
house, thicket, etc. The Eastern post-position locatives are _-it, -et,
-at, -ut;_ the Delaware, _-ng, -nk,_ with connecting vowel _-ing, -ink,
-ong, -onk, -ung, -unk,_ etc. The meaning of this class of suffixes is
the same; they locate a place or object that is at, in, or on some other
place or object, the name of Which is prefixed, as in Delaware _Hitgunk,_
"On or to a tree;" _Utenink,_ "In the town;" _Wachtschunk,_ "On the
mountain." In some cases the locative takes the verbal form indicating
place or country, Williams wrote "_Sachimauónck,_ a Kingdom or Monarchy."
Dr. Schoolcraft wrote: "From _Ojibwai_ (Chippeway) is formed
_Ojib-wain-ong,_ 'Place of the Chippeways;' _Monominikaun-ing,_ 'In the
place of wild rice,'" Dr. Brinton wrote "_Walum-ink,_ 'The place of
paint.'" The letter _s,_ preceding the locative, changes the meaning of
the latter to near, or something less than at or on. The suffixes _-is,
-it, -os, -es_ mean "Small," as in _Ménates_ or _Ménatit,_ "Small
island." The locative affix cannot be applied to an animal in the sense
of at, in, on, to. There are many formative inflections and suffixes
indicating the plural, etc.

Mohawk or Iroquoian names, while polysynthetic, differ from Algonquian
in construction. "The adjective," wrote Horatio Hale, "when employed
in an isolated form, follows the substantive, as _Kanonsa,_ 'house;'
_Kanonsa-kowa,_ 'large house;' but in general the substantive and
adjective coalesce." In some cases the adjective is split in two, and
the substantive inserted, as in _Tiogen,_ a composition of _Te,_ "two,"
and _ogen,_ "to separate," which is split and the word _ononté,_
"mountain," or hill, inserted, forming _Te-ononté-ogen,_ "Between two
mountains," "The local relations of nouns are expressed by affixed
particles, such as _ke, ne, kon, akon, akta._ Thus from _Onónta,_
mountain, we have _Onóntáke,_ at (or to) the mountain; from _Akéhrat_
dish, _Akehrátne,_ in or on the dish," etc. From the variety of its
forms and combinations it is a more difficult language than the
Algonquian. No European has fully mastered it.

No attempt has been made to correct record orthographies further than
to give their probable missionary equivalents where they can be
recognized. In many cases crude orthographies have converted them into
unknown tongues. Imperfect as many of them are and without standing in
aboriginal glossaries, they have become place names that may not be
disturbed. No two of the early scribes expressed the sound of the same
name in precisely the same letters, and even the missionaries who gave
attention to the study of the aboriginal tongues, did not always write
twice alike. Original sounds cannot now be restored. The diacritical
marks employed by Williams and Eliot in the English alphabet, and by
Zeisberger and Heckewelder in the German alphabet, are helpful in
pronunciations, but as a rule the corrupt local record orthographies
are a law unto themselves. In quoting diacritical marks the forms of the
learned linguists who gave their idea of how the word was pronounced,
have been followed. It is not, however, in the power of diacritical
marks or of any European alphabet to express correctly the sound of an
Algonquian or of an Iroquoian word as it was originally spoken, or write
it in European characters. Practically, every essential element in
pronunciation is secured by separating the forms into words or parts of
words, or particles, of which it is composed, (where the original
elements of the composition cannot be detected) by syllabalizing on the
vowel sounds. An anglicized vocalism of any name may be readily
established and an original name formed in American nomenclature, as
many names in current use amply illustrates. Few would suspect that
_Ochsechraga_ (Mohawk) was the original of Saratoga, or that _P'tuk-sepo_
(Lenape) was the original of Tuxedo.

A considerable number of record names have been included that are not
living. They serve to illustrate the dialect spoken in the valley as
handed down by European scribes of different languages, as well as the
local geography of the Indians. The earlier forms are mainly Dutch
notations. A few Dutch names that are regarded by some as Indian, have
been noticed, and also some Indian names on the Delaware River which,
from the associations of that river with the history of the State, as
in part one of its boundary streams, as well as the intimate associations
of the names with the history of the valley of Hudson's River, become
of especial interest.

In the arrangement of names geographical association has been adopted
in preference to the alphabetical, the latter being supplied by index.
This arrangement seems to bring together dialectic groups more
satisfactorily. That there were many variations in the dialects spoken
in the valley of Hudson's River no one will deny, but it may be asserted
with confidence that the difference between the German and the English
alphabets in renderings is more marked than differences in dialects. In
so far as the names have been brought together they form the only key
to the dialects which were spoken in the valley. Their grammatical
treatment is the work of skilled philologists.

Credit has been given for interpretations where the authors were known,
and especially to the late eminent Algonquian authority, J. Hammond
Trumbull. Special acknowledgment of valuable assistance is made to the
late Dr. D. G. Brinton, of Philadelphia; to the late Horatio Hale,
M. A., of Clinton, Ontario, Canada; to the late Prof. J. W. Powell, of
the Bureau of Ethnology, Washington, D. C, and his successor, William H.
Holmes, and their co-laborers, Dr. Albert S. Gatschet and J. B. N.
Hewitt, and to Mr. William R. Gerard, of New York.

The compilation of names and the ascertaining of their locatives and
probable meanings has interested me. Where those names have been
preserved in place they are certain descriptive landmarks above all
others. The results of my amateur labors may be useful to others in the
same field of inquiry as well as to professional linguists. Primarily
the work was not undertaken with a view to publication. Gentlemen of
the New York Historical Association, with a view to preserve what has
been done, and which may never be again undertaken, have asked the
manuscript for publication, and it has been given to them for that
purpose.

                                  E. M. RUTTENBER.
    Newburgh, January, 1906.




                  INDIAN GEOGRAPHICAL NAMES.


                          * * * * *


                 Hudson's River and Its Islands.


Muhheakun'nuk, "The great waters or sea, which are constantly in motion,
either ebbing or flowing," was written by Chief Hendrick Aupaumut, in
his history of the Muhheakun'nuk nation, as the name of Hudson's River,
in the Stockbridge dialect, and its meaning. The first word, _Muhheakun,_
was the national name of the people occupying both banks of the river
from Roelof Jansen's Kill, a few miles south of Catskill, on the east
side of the river, north and east with limit not known, and the second
_-nuk,_ the equivalent of Massachusetts _-tuk,_ Lenape _-ittuk,_ "Tidal
river, or estuary," or "Waters driven by waves or tides," with the
accessory meaning of "great." Literally, in application, "The great
tidal river of the Muhheakan'neuw nation." The Dutch wrote the national
name _Mahikan, Maikan,_ etc., and the English of Connecticut wrote
Mohegan, which was claimed by Drs. Schoolcraft and Trumbull to be
derived from _Maingan_ (Cree _Mahéggun_), "Wolf"--"an enchanted wolf,
or a wolf of supernatural powers." From their prevailing totem or
prevailing coat-of-arms, the Wolf, the French called them _Loups,_
"wolves," and also _Manhingans,_ including under the names "The nine
nations gathered between Manhattan and Quebec." While the name is
generic its application to Hudson's River was probably confined to the
vicinity of Albany, where Chief Aupaumut located their ancient capital
under the name of Pem-po-tow-wut-hut Muh-hea-kan-neuw, "The fire-place
of the Muh-hea-kan-nuk nation." [FN] The Dutch found them on both sides
of the river north of Catskill, with extended northern and eastern
alliances, and south of that point, on the east side of the river, in
alliance with a tribe known as Wappans or Wappings, Wappani, or
"East-side people," the two nations forming the Mahikan nation of
Hudson's River as known in history. (See Wahamensing.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Presumed to have been at what is now known as Scho-lac, which see.


Father Jogues, the French-Jesuit martyr-missionary, wrote in 1646,
_Oi-o-gué_ as the Huron-Iroquoian name of the river, given to him at
Sarachtoga, with the connection "At the river." "_Ohioge,_ river;
_Ohioge-son,_ at the long river," wrote Bruyas. Arent van Curler wrote
the same name, in 1634, Vyoge, and gave it as that of the Mohawk River,
correcting the orthography, in his vocabulary, to "_Oyoghi,_ a kill" or
channel. It is an Iroquoian generic applicable to any principal stream
or current river, with the ancient related meaning of "beautiful river."

It is said that the Mohawks called the river _Cohohataton._ I have not
met that name in records. It was quoted by Dr. Schoolcraft as
traditional, and of course doubtful. He wrote it _Kohatatea,_ and in
another connection wrote "_-atea,_ a valley or landscape." It is
suspected that he coined the name, as he did many others. _Shate-muck_
is quoted as a Mohegan [FN-1] name, but on very obscure evidence,
although it may have been the name of an eel fishing-place, or a great
fishing-place (_-amaug_). Hudson called the stream "The River of the
Mountains." On some ancient maps it is called "Manhattans River." The
Dutch authorities christened it "Mauritus' River" in honor of their
Staat-holder, Prince Maurice. The English recognized the work of the
explorer by conferring the title "Hudson's River." It is a fact
established that Verrazano visited New York harbor in 1524, and gave to
the river the name "Riviere Grande," or Great River; that Estevan Gomez,
a Spanish navigator who followed Verrazano in 1525, called it "St.
Anthony's River," a name now preserved as that of one of the hills of the
Highlands, and it is claimed that French traders visited the river, in
1540, and established a _château_ on Castle [FN-2] Island, at Albany,
[FN-3] and called the river "Norumbega." It may be conceded that possibly
French traders did have a post on Castle Island, but "Norumbega" was
obviously conferred on a wide district of country. It is an Abnaki term
and belonged to the dialect spoken in Maine, where it became more or less
familiar to French traders as early as 1535. That those traders did
locate trading posts on the Penobscot, and that Champlain searched for
their remains in 1604, are facts of record. The name means "Quiet" or
"Still Water." It would probably be applicable to that section of
Hudson's River known as "Stillwater," north of Albany, but the evidence
is wanted that it was so applied. Had it been applied by the tribes to
any place on Hudson's River, it would have remained as certainly as
_Menaté_ remained at New York.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] "_Mohegans_ is an anglicism primarily applied to the small band
 of  Pequots under Uncas." (Trumbull.) While of the same linguistic
 stock,  neither the name or the history of Uncas's clan should be
 confused with  that of the Mahicani of Hudson's River.

 [FN-2] Introduced by the Dutch--_Kasteel._ The Indians had no such word.
 The Delawares called a house or hut or a town that was palisaded,
 _Moenach,_ and Zeisberger used the same word for "fence"--an enclosure
 palisaded around. Eliot wrote _Wonkonous,_ "fort."

 [FN-3] It is claimed that the walls of this fort were found by Hendrick
 Christiansen, in 1614; that they were measured by him and found to
 cover an area of 58 feet; that the fort was restored by the Dutch and
 occupied by them until they were driven out by a freshet, occasioned by
 the breaking up of the ice in the river in the spring of 1617; that the
 Dutch then built what was subsequently known as Fort Orange, at the
 mouth of the Tawalsentha, or Norman's Kill, about two miles south of
 the present State street, Albany, and that Castle Island took that name
 from the French _château_--all of which is possible, but for conclusive
 reasons why it should not be credited, the student may consult
 "Norumbega" in Winsor's "Narrative and Critical History of America."
 Wrote Dr. Trumbull: "Theuet, in _La Cosmographie Universella,_ gives
 an account of his visit, in 1656, to 'one of the finest rivers in the
 whole world, which we call _Norumbeque,_ and the aboriginees _Agoncy,'_
 now Penobscot Bay."



[Illustration: HUDSON'S RIVER, 1609. From Hudson's Chart.]



Manhattan, now so written, does not appear in the Journal of Hudson's
exploration of the river in 1609. On a Spanish-English map of 1610,
"Made for James I," and sent to Philip III by Velasco in letter of March
22, 1611, [FN-1] _Mannahatin_ is written as the name of the east side
of the river, and _Mannahata_ as that of the west side. From the former
_Manhattan,_ and from it also the name of the Indians "among whom" the
Dutch made settlement in 1623-4, otherwise known by the general name of
_Wickquaskecks,_ as well as the name of the entire Dutch possessions.
[FN-2] Presumably the entries on the Spanish-English map were copied
from Hudson's chart, for which there was ample time after his return to
England. Possibly they may have been copied by Hudson, who wrote that
his voyage "had been suggested" by some "letters and maps" which "had
been sent to him" by Capt. Smith from Virginia. Evidently the notations
are English, and evidently, also, Hudson, or his mate, Juet, had a chart
from his own tracing or from that of a previous explorer, which he
forwarded to his employers, or of which they had a copy, when he wrote
in his Journal: "On _that side_ of the river called _Mannahata,_" as a
reference by which his employers could identify the side of the river
on which the Half-Moon anchored, [FN-3] Presumably the chart was drawn
by Hudson and forwarded with his report, and that to him belongs the
honor of reducing to an orthographic form the first aboriginal name of
record on the river which now bears his name. Five years after Hudson's
advent Adriaen Block wrote _Manhates_ as the name of what is now New
York Island, and later, De Vries wrote _Manates_ as the name of Staten
Island, both forms having the same meaning, _i. e.,_ "Small island."
There have been several interpretations of Mannahatin, the most
analytical and most generally accepted being by the late Dr. J. H.
Trumbull: "From _Menatey_ (Del.), 'Island'--_Mannahata_ 'The Island,'
the reference being to the main land or to Long Island as the large
island. _Menatan_ (Hudson's _Mannah-atin,_ _-an_ or _-in,_ the
indefinite or diminutive form), 'The small island,' or the smaller of
the two principal islands, the Manhates of Adriaen Block. [FN-4]
_Manáhtons,_ 'People of the Island,' _Manáhatanesen,_ 'People of the
small islands.'" [FN-5] The Eastern-Algonquian word for "Island"
(English notation), is written _Munnoh,_ with formative _-an_
(Mun-nohan). It appears of record, occasionally, in the vicinity of
New York, presumably introduced by interpreters or English scribes. The
usual form is the Lenape _Menaté,_ Chippeway _Minnis,_ "Small island,"
classed also as Old Algonquian, or generic, may be met in the valley of
the Hudson, but the instances are not clear. It is simply a dialectic
equivalent of Del. _Ménates._ (See Monach'nong.) Van Curler wrote in his
Mohawk vocabulary (1635), "_Kanon-newaga_, Manhattan Island." The late
J. W. Powell, Director of the Bureau of Ethnology, wrote me: "In the
alphabet of this office the name may be transliterated _Kanoñnò'ge._ It
signifies 'Place of Reeds.'" Perhaps what was known as the "Reed Valley"
was referred to, near which Van Twiller had a tobacco plantation where
the Indians of all nations came to trade. (See Saponickan.) The lower
part of the island was probably more or less a district of reed swamps.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] Brown's "Genesis of the United States," 327, 457, 459, ii, 80.

 [FN-2] Colonial History of New York.

 [FN-3] Hudson anchored in the bay near Hoboken. Near by his anchorage
 he noticed that "there was a cliff that looked of the color of white
 green." This cliff is near Elysian Fields at Hoboken. (Broadhead.)
 The cliff is now known as Castle Point.

 [FN-4] The reference to Adriaen Block is presumably to the "Carte
 Figurative" of 1614-16, now regarded as from Block's chart.

 [FN-5] "Composition of Indian Geographical Names," p. 22.


Pagganck, so written in Indian deed of 1637, as the name of Governor's
Island--Peconuc, Denton, is an equivalent of _Pagán'nak,_ meaning
literally "Nut Island." Also written _Pachgan,_ as in _Pachganunschi,_
"White walnut trees." (Zeisb.) Denton explained, "Because excellent nut
trees grew there." [FN] The Dutch called it "der Nooten Eilandt,"
literally "The Walnut Island," from whence the modern name, "Nutten
Island." The island was purchased from the Indian owners by Director
Wouter van Twiller, from whose occupation, and its subsequent use as a
demense of the governors of the Province, its present name.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Denton's "Description of New York," p. 29. Ward's and Blackwell's
 islands were sold to the Dutch by the Marechawicks, of Long Island, in
 1636-7. Governor's Island was sold in the same year by the Tappans,
 Hackinsacks and Nyacks, the grantors signing themselves as "hereditary
 owners." Later deeds were signed by chiefs of the Raritans and
 Hackinsacks.


Minnisais is not a record name. It was conferred on Bedloe's Island by
Dr. Schoolcraft from the Ojibwe or Chippeway dialect, [FN] in which it
means "Small island."

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The Objibwe (Objibwai) were a nation of three tribes living
 northwest of the great lakes, of which the Ojibwai or Chippeway
 represented the Eagle totem. It is claimed by some writers that their
 language stands at the head of the Algonquian tongues. This claim is
 disputed on behalf of the Cree, the Shawanoe, and the Lenape or
 Delaware. It is not assumed that Ojibwe (Chippeway) terms are not
 Algonquian, but that they do not strictly belong to the dialects of the
 Hudson's river families. Rev. Heckewelder saw no particular difference
 between the Ojibwe and the Lenape except in the French and the English
 forms. Ojibwe terms may always be quoted in explanations of the Lenape.


Kiosh, or "Gull Island," was conferred on Ellis Island by Dr.
Schoolcraft from the Ojibwe dialect. The interpretation is correct
presumably.

Tenkenas is of record as the Indian name of what is now known as Ward's
Island. [FN] It appears in deed of 1636-7. It means "Small island,"
from _Tenke_ (Len.), "little."

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The Dutch called the island _Onvruchtbaar,_ "Unfruitful, barren."
 The English adopted the signification, "Barren," which soon became
 corrupted to "Barrent's," to which was added "Great" to distinguish it
 from Randal's Island, which was called "Little Barrent's Island." Barn
 Island is another corruption. Both islands were "barren" no doubt.


Monatun was conferred by Dr. Schoolcraft on the whirlpool off Hallet's
Cove, with the explanation, "A word conveying in its multiplied forms
the various meanings of violent, forcible, dangerous, etc." Dr.
Schoolcraft introduced the word as the derivative of Manhatan, which,
however, is very far from being explained by it. _Hell-gate,_ a vulgar
orthography of Dutch _Hellegat,_ has long been the popular name of the
place. It was conferred by Adriaen Block, in 1614-16, to the dangerous
strait known as the East River, from a strait in Zealand, which,
presumably, was so called from Greek _Helle,_ as heard in Hellespont--"Sea
of Helle"--now known as the Dardanelles--which received its Greek name
from _Helle,_ daughter of Athamas, King of Thebes, who, the fable tells
us, was drowned in passing over it. Probably the Dutch sailors regarded
the strait as the "Gate of Hell," but that is not the meaning of the
name--"a dangerous strait or passage." In some records the strait is
called _Hurlgate,_ from Dutch _Warrel,_ "Whirl," and _gat,_ "Hole, gap,
mouth"--substantially, "a whirlpool."

Monachnong, deed to De Vries, 1636; _Menates,_ De Vries's Journal;
_Ehquaons_ (Eghquaous, Brodhead, by mistake in the letter _n_), deed of
1655, and _Aquehonge-Monuchnong,_ deed to Governor Lovelace, 1670, are
forms of the names given as that of Staten Island, and are all from
Lenape equivalents. _Menates_ means "Small island" as a whole;
_Monach'nong_ means a "Place on the island," or less than the whole, as
shown by the claims of the Indians in 1670, that they had not previously
sold all the island. (Col. Hist. N. Y., xiii, 453.) It is the equivalent
of _Menach'hen,_ Minsi; _Menach'n,_ Abn., "Island," and _ong,_ locative;
in Mass. _Mimnoh-han-auke._ (See Mannhonake.) _Eghquaons_ and _Aquehonga_
are equivalents, and also equivalents of _Achquoanikan-ong,_ "Bushnet
fishing-place," of which _Acquenonga_ is an alternate in New Jersey.
(Nelson's "Indians of New Jersey," 122.) In other words, the Indians
conveyed places on the island, including specifically their "bushnet
fishing-place," and by the later deed to Lovelace, conveyed all unsold
places. The island was owned by the Raritans who resided "behind the
Kol," and the adjoining Hackensacks. (Deed of 1655.) Its last Indian
occupants were the Nyacks, who removed to it after selling their lands
at New Utrecht. (See Paganck note.)

Minnahanock, given as the name of Blackwell's Island, was interpreted by
Dr. Trumbull from _Munnŏhan,_ Mass., the indefinite form of _Munnŏh,_
"Island," and _auke,_ Mass., "Land" or place. Dr. O'Callaghan's "Island
home," is not in the composition. (See Mannhonake.)

                          * * * * *

                    On Manhattan Island.


Kapsee, Kapsick, etc., the name of what was the extreme point of land
between Hudson's River and the East River, and still known as Copsie
Point, was claimed by Dr. Schoolcraft to be Algonquian, and to mean,
"Safe place of landing," which it may have been. The name, however,
is pretty certainly a corruption of Dutch _Kaap-hoekje,_ "A little cape
or promontory."

Saponickan and Sapohanican are the earliest forms of a name which
appears later Sappokanican, Sappokanikke, Saponican, Shawbackanica,
Taponkanico, etc. "A piece of land bounded on the north by the strand
road, called Saponickan" (1629); "Tobacco plantation _near_ Sapohanican"
(1639); "Plantation situate against the Reed Valley _beyond_
Sappokanican" (1640). Wouter van Twiller purchased the tract, in 1629,
for the use of the Dutch government and established thereon a tobacco
plantation, with buildings enclosed in palisade, which subsequently
became known as the little village of Sapokanican--Sappokanican, Van
der Donck--and later (1721) as Greenwich Village. It occupied very
nearly the site of the present Gansevort market. The "Strand road" is
now Greenwich Street. It was primarily, an Indian path along the shore
of the river north, with branches to Harlem and other points, the main
path continuing the trunk-path through Raritan Valley, but locally
beginning at the "crossing-place," or, as the record reads, "Where the
Indians cross [the Hudson] to bring their pelteries." [FN-1] "South of
Van Twiller's plantation was a marsh much affected by wild-fowl, and
a bright, quick brook, called by the Dutch 'Bestavar's Kil,' and by the
English 'Manetta Water.'" [FN-2] (Half-Moon Series.) _Saponickan_ was in
place here when Van Twiller made his purchase (1629), as the record
shows, and was adopted by him as the name of his settlement. To what
feature it referred cannot be positively stated, but apparently to the
Reed Valley or marsh. It has had several interpretations, but none that
fare satisfactory. The syllable _pon_ may denote a bulbous root which
was found there. (See Passapenoc.) The same name is probably met in
Saphorakain, or Saphonakan, given as the name of a tract described as
"Marsh and canebrake," lying near or on the shore of Gowanus Bay,
Brooklyn. (See Kanonnewage, in connection with Manhattan.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] "Through this valley pass large numbers of all sorts of tribes
 on their way north and east." (Van Tienhoven, 1650.) "Where the Indians
 cross to bring their pelteries." (De Laet, 1635.) The crossing-place
 is now known as Pavonia. The path crossed the Spuyten Duyvil at Harlem
 and extended along the coast east. To and from it ran many "paths and
 roads" on Manhattan, which, under the grant to Van Twiller, were to
 "forever remain for the use of the inhabitants." The evidence of an
 Indian village at or near the landing is not tangible. The only village
 or settlement of which there is any evidence was that which gathered
 around Van Twiller's plantation, which was a noted trading post for
 "all sorts of tribes."

 [FN-2] Bestevaar (Dutch) means "Dear Father," and Manetta (Manittoo,
 Algonquian), means, "That which surpasses, or is more than ordinary."
 Water of more than ordinary excellence. (See Manette.)


Nahtonk, Recktauck, forms of the name, or of two different names, of
Corlear's Hook, may signify, abstractively, "Sandy Point," as has been
interpreted; but apparently, _Nahtonk_ [FN-1] is from _Nâ-i,_ "a point
or corner," and _Recktauck_ [FN-2] from _Lekau_ (Requa), "Sand gravel"--a
"sandy place." It was a sandy point with a beach, entered, on English
maps, "Crown Point."

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] Naghtonk (Benson); Nahtonk (Schoolcraft); Rechtauck (record).
 It was to the huts which were located here to which a clan of Long
 Island Indians fled for protection, in February, 1643, and were
 inhumanly murdered by the Dutch. The record reads: "Where a few
 Rockaway Indians from Long Island, with their chief, Niande Nummerus,
 had built their wigwams." (Brodhead.) "And a party of freemen behind
 Corlear's plantation, on the Manhattans, who slew a large number and
 afterwards burned their huts." The name of the Chief, _Niande
 Nummerus,_ is corrupted from the Latin _Nicanda Numericus,_ the name
 of a Roman gens. De Vries wrote, "Hummerus, a Rockaway chief, who I
 knew."

 [FN-2] See Rechqua-hackie. "The old Harlem creek, on Manhattan Island,
 was called Rechawanes, or 'Small, sandy river.'" (Gerard.)


Warpoes is given as the name of "a small hill" on the east side and
"near ye fresh water" lake or pond called the _Kolk_ (Dutch "pit-hole"),
which occupied several acres in the neighborhood of Centre Street. [FN-1]
The Indian name is that of the narrow pass between the hill and the
pond, which it described as "small" or narrow. (See Raphoos.)

In the absence of record names, the late Dr. Schoolcraft conferred, on
several points, terms from the Ojibwe or Chippeway, which may be
repeated as descriptive merely. A hill at the corner of Charlton and
Varick streets was called by him _Ishpatinau,_ "A bad hill." [FN-2] A
ridge or cliff north of Beekman Street, was called _Ishibic,_ "A bad
rock;" the high land on Broadway, _Acitoc;_ a rock rising up in the
Battery, _Abie,_ and Mount Washington, _Penabic,_ "The comb mountain."
The descriptions are presumably correct, but the features no longer
exist.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] "By ye edge of ye hill by ye fresh water." (Cal. N. Y. Land
 Papers, 17.) The Dutch name ran into _Kalch, Kolack_ and _Collect,_
 and in early records "_Kalch-hock._" from its peculiar shape,
 resembling a fish-hook.

 [FN-2] "At ye sand Hills near the Bowery." (Cal. N. Y. Land Papers.
 17.) _Ishpetouga_ was given by the same writer to Brooklyn Heights,
 with the explanation "High, sandy banks," but the term does not
 describe the character of the elevation. (See Espating.)


Muscota is given as the name of the "plain or meadow" known later as
Montagne's Flat, between 108th and 124th streets. (Col. Hist. N. Y.,
xiv.) It also appears as the name of a hill, and in Muskuta as that of
the great flat on the north side of the Spuyten Duivel. "The first
point of the main land to the east of the island Papirinimen, there
where the hill Muskuta is." The hill takes the name from the meadows
which it describes. "_Moskehtu,_ a meadow." (Eliot.)

Papinemen (1646), Pahparinnamen (1693), Papirinimen (modern), are forms
of the Indian name used interchangeably by the Dutch with Spuyten Duivel
to designate a place where the tide-overflow of the Harlem River is
turned aside by a ridge and unites with Tibbet's Brook, constituting
what is known as the Spuyten Duivel Kill, correctly described by Riker
in his "History of Harlem": "The narrow kill called by the Indians
Pahparinamen, which, winding around the northerly end of Manhattan,
connected the Spuyten Duyvil with the Great Kill or Harlem River, gave
its name to the land contiguous to it on either side." The locative of
the name is clearly shown in the boundaries of the Indian deed to Van
der Donck, in 1646, and in the subsequent Philipse Patent of 1693, the
former describing the south line of the lands conveyed as extending from
the Hudson "to Papinemen, called by our people Spuyten Duivel," and the
latter as extending to and including "the neck, island or hummock,
Pahparinnamen," on the north side of the passage, at which point, in the
early years of Dutch occupancy, a crossing place or "wading place" was
found which had been utilized by the Indians for ages, and of which
Jasper Bankers and Peter Sluyter wrote, in 1679-80, "They can go over
this creek, at dead or low water, upon the rocks and reefs, at a place
called Spuyt ten Duyvel." From this place the name was extended to the
"island or hummock" and to what was called "the Papirinameno Patent,"
at the same point on the south side of the stream, to which it was
claimed to belong in 1701. Mr. Riker's assignment of the name to the
Spuyten Duivel passage is probably correct. The "neck, island or
hummock" was a low elevation in a salt marsh or meadow. It was utilized
as a landing place by the Indians whose path ran from thence across the
marsh "to the main." Later, the path was converted to a causeway or
road-approach to what is still known as King's Bridge. A ferry was
established here in 1669 and known as "The Spuyten Duyvil passage or
road to and from the island to the main." In 1692 Governor Andros gave
power to the city of New York to build a bridge "over the Spiken devil
ferry," and the city, with the consent of the Governor, transferred the
grant to Frederick Philipse. In giving his consent the Governor made the
condition that the bridge "should thenceforth be known and called King's
Bridge." It was made a free bridge in 1758-9. The "island or hummock"
came to be the site of the noted Macomb mansion.

The name has not been satisfactorily translated. Mr. Riker wrote, "Where
the stream closes," or is broken off, recognizing the locative of the
name. Ziesberger wrote, Papinamen, "Diverting," turning aside, to go
different ways; accessorily, that which diverts or turns aside, and
place where the action of the verb is performed. Where the Harlem is
turned aside or diverted, would be a literal description.



[Illustration: The Sputen Duyvel]



Spuyten Duyvil, now so written, was the early Dutch nickname of the
Papirinimen ford or passage, later known as King's Bridge. "By our
people called," wrote Van der Donck in 1652, indicating conference by
the Dutch prior to that date. It simply described the passage as evil,
vicious, dangerous. Its derivatives are _Spui,_ "sluice;" _Spuit,_
"spout;" _Spuiten,_ "to spout, to squirt, to discharge with force," as
a waterspout, or water forced through a narrow passage. _Duyvil_ is a
colloquial expression of viciousness. The same name is met on the Mohawk
in application to the passage of the stream between two islands near
Schenectady. The generally quoted translation, "_Spuyt den Duyvil,_ In
spite of the Devil," quoted by Brodhead as having been written by Van
der Donck, has no standing except in Irving's "Knickerbocker History of
New York." Van der Donck never wrote the sentence. He knew, and Brodhead
knew, that _Spuyt_ was not _Spijt,_ nor _Spuiten_ stand for _Spuitten._
The Dutch for "In spite of the Devil," is _In Spijt van Duivel._ The
sentence may have been quoted by Brodhead without examination. It was a
popular story that Irving told about one Antony Corlear's declaration
that he would swim across the ford at flood tide in a violent storm,
"In spite of the devil," but obviously coined in Irving's brain. It may,
however, had for its foundation the antics of a very black and muscular
African who was employed to guard the passage and prevent hostile
Indians as well as indiscreet Dutchmen from crossing, and who, for the
better discharge of his duty, built fires at night, armed himself with
sword and firebrands, vociferated loudly, and acted the character of a
devil very well. At all events the African is the only historical devil
that had an existence at the ford, and he finally ran away and became
merged with the Indians. _Spiting Devil,_ an English corruption, ran
naturally into _Spitting Devil,_ and some there are who think that that
is a reasonably fair rendering of Dutch _Spuiten._ They are generally
of the class that take in a cant reading with a relish.

Shorakkapoch and Shorackappock are orthographies of the name of record
as that of the cove into which the Papirinemen discharges its waters at
a point on the Hudson known as Tubby Hook. It is specifically located
in the Philipse charter of 1693: "A creek called Papparinnemeno which
divides New York Island from the main land, so along said creek as it
runs to Hudson's River, which part is called by the Indians
Shorackhappok," _i. e._ that part of the stream on Hudson's River. In
the patent to Hugh O'Neil (1666): "To the Kill Shorakapoch, and then to
Papirinimen," _i. e.,_ to the cove and thence east to the Spuyten Duyvil
passage. "The beautiful inlet called Schorakapok." (Riker.) Dr. Trumbull
wrote "_Showaukuppock_ (Mohegan), a cove." William R. Gerard suggests
"_P'skurikûppog_ (Lenape), 'forked, fine harbor,' so called because it
was safely shut in by Tubby Hook, [FN-1] and another Hook at the north,
the current taking a bend around the curved point of rock (covered at
high tide) that forked or divided the harbor at the back." Dr. Brinton
wrote: "_W'shakuppek,_ 'Smooth still water;' _pek,_ a lake, cove or any
body of still water; _kup,_ from _kuppi,_ 'cove.'" Bolton, in his
"History of Westchester County," located at the mouth of the stream, on
the north side, an Indian fort or castle under the name of _Nipinichen,_
but that name belongs on the west side of the Hudson at Konstable's
Hook, [FN-2] and the narrative of the attack on Hudson's ship in 1609,
noted in Juet's Journal, does not warrant the conclusion that there was
an Indian fort or castle in the vicinity. A fishing village there may
have been. At a later date (1675) the authorities permitted a remnant
of the Weckquasgecks to occupy lands "On the north point of Manhattan
Island" (Col, Hist. N. Y., xiii, 494), and the place designated may
have been in previous occupation.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] Tubby Hook, Dutch _Tobbe Hoeck,_ from its resemblance to a
 washtub.

 [FN-2] Called Konstabelshe's Hoek from a grant of land to one Jacobus
 Roy, the Konstabel or gunner at Fort Amsterdam, in 1646.



[Illustration: THE PALISADES FROM YONKERS.]



                          * * * * *


          Names on the East from Manhattan North.

Keskeskick, "a piece of land, situated opposite to the flat on the
island of Manhattan, called Keskeskick, stretching lengthwise along the
Kil which runs behind the island of Manhattan, beginning at the head of
said Kil and running to opposite of the high hill by the flat, namely
by the great hill," (Deed of 1638.) _Kaxkeek_ is the orthography of
Riker (Hist. of Harlem); and _Kekesick_ that of Brodhead (Hist. New
York), in addition to which may be quoted _Keesick_ and _Keakates,_
given as the names of what is now known as Long Pond, which formed the
southeast boundary of the tract, where was also a salt marsh or meadow.
In general terms, the name means a "meadow," and may have been that of
this salt marsh (a portion of the name dropped) or of the flat. The root
is _Kâk,_ "sharp;" _Kâkákes,_ "sharp grass," or sedge-marsh;
_Sik-kákaskeg,_ "salt sedge-marsh." (Gerard.) _Micûckaskéete,_ "a
meadow." (Williams.) _Muscota,_ now in use, is another word for meadow.

Mannepies is quoted by Riker (Hist. Harlem) as the name of the hilly
tract or district of Keskeskick, described as lying "over against the
flats of the island of Manhattan." It is now preserved as the name of
Cromwell Lake and creek, and seems to have been the name of the former.
The original was probably an equivalent of _Menuppek,_ "Any enclosed
body of water great or small." (Anthony.)

Neperah, Nippiroha, Niperan, Nepeehen, Napperhaera, Armepperahin, the
latter of date 1642 (Col. Hist. N. Y., xiii, 9), forms of record as the
name of Sawmill Creek, and also quoted as the name of the site of the
present city of Yonkers, has been translated by Wm. R. Gerard, from the
form of 1642: "A corruption of _Ana-nepeheren,_ that is, 'fishing
stream' or 'fishing rapids.'" _Ap-pehan_ (Eliot), "a trap, a snare."
There was an Indian village on the north side of the stream in 1642.
(Col. Hist. N. Y., xiii, 9.)

Nepahkomuk, Nappikomack, etc., quoted as the name of a place on Sawmill
Creek, and also as the name of an Indian village at Yonkers, may have
been the name of the latter by extension. It has been translated with
apparent correctness from _Nepé-komuk_ (Mass.), "An enclosed or occupied
water-place." [FN]

                          * * * * *

 [FN] This translation is from _Nepe (Nepa, Nape, Nippe,_ etc.), meaning
 "water," generally, and _Komuk,_ "place enclosed, occupied, limited," a
 particular body of water. "The radical of _Nipe_ is _pe_ or _pa,_ which,
 with the demonstrative and definitive _ne_ prefixed, formed the noun
 _nippe,_ water." (Trumbull.) _Nape-ake (-auke, -aki)_ means "Water-land,"
 or water-place. _Nape-ek,_ Del., _Nepeauk,_ Mass., means "Standing
 water," a lake or pond or a stretch of still water in a river.
 _Menuppek,_ "Lake, sea, any enclosed body of water, great or small."
 (Anthony.) _Nebi, nabe, m'bi, be,_ are dialectic forms. The Delaware
 _M'hi_ (Zeisb.) is occasionally met in the valley, but the Massachusetts
 _Nepe_ is more frequent. _Gami_ is another noun-generic meaning "Water"
 (Cree, _Kume_). _Komuk_ (Mass.), _Kamick_ (Del.), is frequently met in
 varying orthographies. In general terms it means "Place, limited or
 enclosed," a particular place as a field, garden, house, etc., as
 distinguished from _auke,_ "Land, earth, unlimited, unenclosed."


Meghkeekassin, the name of a large rock in an obscure nook on the west
side of the Neperah, near the Hudson, is written _Macackassin_ in deed
of 1661. It is from _Mechek,_ Del., "great," and _assin_ "stone."
"_Meechek-assin-ik,_ At the big rock." (Heckewelder.) The name is also
of record _Amack-assin,_ a Delaware term of the same general
meaning--"_Amangi,_ great, big (in composition _Aman-gach_), with the
accessory notion of terrible, frightful." (Dr. Brinton.) Presumably, in
application here, "a monster," _i. e._ a stone not of the native
formation usually found in the locality. [FN]

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The Indians are traditionally represented as regarding boulders of
 this class, as monuments of a great battle which was fought between
 their hero myth Micabo and Kasbun his twin brother, the former
 representing the East or Orient, and the latter the West, the imagery
 being a description of the primary contest between Light and
 Darkness--Light gleaming from the East and Darkness retreating to the
 West before it. Says the story: "The feud between the brothers was
 bitter and the contest long and doubtful. It began on the mountains of
 the East. The face of the land was seamed and torn by the wrestling of
 the mighty combatants, and the huge boulders that are scattered about
 were the weapons hurled at each other by the enraged brothers." The
 story is told in its several forms by Dr. Brinton in his "American Hero
 Myths."


Wickquaskeck is entered on Van der Donck's map as the name of an Indian
village or castle the location of which is claimed by Bolton to have
been at Dobb's Ferry, where the name is of record. It was, however, the
name of a place from which it was extended by the early Dutch to a very
considerable representative clan or family of Indians whose jurisdiction
extended from the Hudson to or beyond the Armonck or Byram's River, with
principal seat on the head waters of that stream, or on one of its
tributaries, who constituted the tribe more especially known to the
Dutch settlers as the Manhattans. Cornelius Tienhoven, Secretary of New
Amsterdam, wrote, in 1654, "_Wicquaeskeck_ on the North River, five
miles above New Amsterdam, is very good and suitable land for
agriculture. . . . This land lies between the Sintsinck and Armonck
streams, situate between the East and North rivers." (Doc. Hist, N. Y.,
iv, 29.) "Five miles," Dutch, was then usually counted as twenty miles
(English). Standard Dutch miles would be about eighteen. The Armonck is
now called Byram River; it flows to the Sound on the boundary line
between New York and Connecticut. A part of the territory of this tribe
is loosely described in a deed of 1682, as extending--"from the rock
Sighes, on Hudson's River, to the Neperah, and thence north until you
come to the eastward of the head of the creek, called by the Indians
Wiequaskeck, [FN] stretching through the woods to a kill called
Seweruc," including "a piece of land about Wighqueskeck," _i. e._ about
the head of the creek, which was certainly at the end of a swamp. The
historic seat of the clan was in this vicinity. In the narrative of the
war of 1643-5, it is written, "He of Witqueschreek, living N. E. of
Manhattans. . . . The old Indian (a captive) promised to lead us to
Wetquescheck." He did so, but the castles, three in number, strongly
palisaded, were found empty. Two of them were burned. The inmates, it
was learned, had gathered at a large castle or village on Patucquapaug,
now known as Dumpling Pond, in Greenwich, Ct., to celebrate a festival.
They were attacked there and slaughtered in great numbers. (Doc. Hist.
N. Y., iv, 29.) Bolton's claim that the clan had a castle at or near
Dobb's Ferry, may have been true at some date. The name appears in many
orthographies; in 1621, _Wyeck;_ in treaty of 1645, _Wiquaeshex;_ in
other connections, _Witqueschreek, Weaquassick,_ and Van der Donck's
_Wickquaskeek._ Bolton translated it from the form, _Weicquasguck,_
"Place of the bark kettle," which is obviously erroneous. Dr. Trumbull
wrote: "From Moh. _Weegasoeguck,_ 'the end of the marsh or wet meadow.'"
Van der Donck's _Wickquaskeck_ has _the same meaning._ It is from Lenape
_Wicqua-askek--wicqua,_ "end of," _askek,_ "swamp," marsh, etc.: _-ck,
-eck,_ formative.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The creek now bearing the name flows to the Hudson through the
 village of Dobb's Ferry. Its local name, "Wicker's creek," is a
 corruption of Wickquaskeek. It was never the name of an individual.


Pocanteco, Pecantico, Puegkandico and Perghanduck, a stream so called
[FN-1] in Westchester County, was translated by Dr. O'Callaghan from
_Pohkunni,_ "Dark." "The dark river," and by Bolton from _Pockawachne,_
"A stream between hills," which is certainly erroneous. The first word
is probably _Pohk_ or _Pak,_ root _Paken_ (_Pákenum,_ "Dark," Zeisb.;
_Pohken-ahtu,_ "In darkness," Eliot). The second may stand for
_antakeu,_ "Woods," "Forest," and the combination read "The Dark Woods."
The stream rises in New Castle township and flows across the town of Mt.
Pleasant to the Hudson at Tarrytown, where it is associated with
Irving's story of Sleepy Hollow. The Dutch called it "Sleeper's-haven
Kil," from the name which they gave to the reach on the Hudson,
"Verdrietig Hoek," or "Tedious Point," because the hook or point was so
long in sight of their slow-sailing vessels, and in calms their crews
slept away the hours under its shadows, "Over against the Verdrietig
Hoek, commonly called by the name of Sleeper's Haven," is the record.
Pocanteco was a heavily wooded valley, and suggested to the early
mothers stories of ghosts to keep their children from wandering in its
depths. From the woods or the valley the name was extended to the
stream.[FN-2] (See Alipkonck.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] December 1st, 1680, Frederick Phillips petitioned for liberty to
 purchase "a parcel of land on each side of the creek called by the
 Indians Pocanteco, . . . adjoining the land he hath already purchased;
 there to build and erect a saw-mill." (Col. Hist. N. Y., xiii, 546.)

 [FN-2] "Far in the foldings of the hills winds this wizard
 stream--sometimes silently and darkly through solemn woodlands.. . .
 In the neighborhood of the aqueduct is a deep ravine which forms the
 dreamy region of Sleepy Hollow." (Sketch Book.)


Alipkonck is entered on Van der Donck's map of 1656, and located with
the sign of an Indian village south of Sing Sing. Bolton (Hist. West.
Co.) claimed it as the name of Tarrytown, and translated it, "The place
of elms," which it certainly does not mean. Its derivative, however, is
disguised in its orthography, and its locative is not certain.
Conjecturally _Alipk_ is from _Wálagk_ (surd mutes _g_ and _p_ exchanged),
"An open place, a hollow or excavation." The locative may have been
Sleepy Hollow. _Tarrytown,_ which some writers have derived from _Tarwe_
(Dutch), "Wheat"--Wheat town--proves to be from an early settler whose
name was _Terry,_ pronounced _Tarry,_ as written in early records. The
Dutch name for Wheat town would be Tarwe-stadt, which was never written
here.

Oscawanna, an island so called, lying a short distance south of Cruger's
Station on N. Y. Central R. R., Hudson River Division, is of record, in
1690, _Wuscawanus._ (Doc. Hist. N. Y., ii, 237.) It seems to have been
from the name of a sachem, otherwise known as Weskora, Weskheun,
Weskomen, in 1685. _Wuski,_ Len., "New, young;" _Wuske'éne_ Williams, "A
youth."



[Illustration: SOUTHERN GATEWAY OF THE HIGHLANDS]



Shildrake, or Sheldrake, given as the name of Furnace Brook, takes that
name from an extended forest known in local records as "The Furnace
Woods." By exchange of _l_ and _n,_ it is probably from _Schind,_
"Spruce-pine" (Zeisb.); _aki,_ "Land" or place. _Schindikeu,_ "Spruce
forest" ("Hemlock woods," Anthony). (See Shinnec'ock.) Furnace Brook
takes that name from an ancient furnace on its bank. In 1734 it was
known as "The old-mill stream." _Jamawissa,_ quoted as its Indian name,
seems to be an aspirated form of _Tamaquese,_ "Small beaver." (See
Jamaica.)

Sing-Sing--Sinsing, Van der Donck; _Sintsing,_ treaty of 1645--usually
translated, "At the standing-stone," and "Stone upon stone," means "At
the small stones," or "Place of small stones"--from _assin_ "stone;"
_is,_ diminutive, and _ing,_ locative. _Ossinsing,_ the name of the
town, has the same meaning; also, Sink-sink, L. I., ind Assinising,
Chemung County. The interpretation is literally sustained in the
locative on the Hudson.

Tuckahoe, town of East Chester, is from _Ptuckweōō,_ "It is round."
It was the name of a bulbous root which was used by the Indians for food
and for making bread, or round loaves. (See Tuckahoe, L. I.)

Kitchiwan, modern form; _Kitchawanc,_ treaty of 1643; _Kichtawanghs,_
treaty of 1645; _Kitchiwan,_ deed of 1645; _Kitchawan,_ treaty of 1664;
the name of a stream in Westchester County from which extended to an
Indian clan, "Is," writes Dr. Albert S. Gatschet of the Bureau of
Ethnology, "an equivalent of _Wabenaki-ke'dshwan, -kidshuan,_ suffixed
verbal stem, meaning 'Running Swiftly,' 'Rushing water,' or current,
whether over rapids or not. _Sas-katchéwan,_ Canada, 'The roiley,
rushing stream'; _assisku,_ 'Mud, dirt.' (Cree.) The prefix _ki_ or
_ke,_ is nothing else than an abbreviation of _kitchi,_ 'great,'
'large,' and here 'strong.' Examples are frequent as -kitchuan,
-kitchawan, Mass.; kesi-itsooaⁿn or taⁿn, Abn., Kussi-tchuan, Mass., 'It
swift flows.' The prefix is usually applied to streams which rise in the
highlands and flow down rapidly descending slopes." The final _k_ in some
of the early forms, indicates pronunciation with the guttural aspirate,
as met in _wank_ and wangh in other local names. [FN] The final _s_ is a
foreign plural usually employed to express "people," or tribe. The
stream is now known as the _Croten_ from _Cnoten,_ the name of a
resident sachem, which by exchange of _n_ and _r,_ becomes _Croten,_ an
equivalent, wrote Dr. Schoolcraft of _Noten,_ Chip., "The wind."
"Bounded on the south by Scroton's River" (deed of 1703); "Called by
the Indians Kightawank, and by the English Knotrus River." (Col. N. Y,
Land Papers, 79.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Dr. Trumbull wrote in the Natick (Mass.) dialect, "_Kussitchuan,
 -uwan,_ impersonal verb, 'It flows in a rapid stream,' a current; it
 continues flowing; as a noun, 'a rapid stream.'" In Cree, _Kussehtanne,_
 "Flowing as a stream" In Delaware, _-tanne_ has its equivalent in
 _-hanne._ "The impersonal verb termination _-awan, -uan,_ etc., is
 sometimes written with the participial and subjunctive _k_" (_ka_ or
 _gh._) (Gerard.) The _k_ or _gh_ appears in some forms of Kitchawan.
 (See Waronawanka.)


Titicus, given as the name of a branch of the Croton flowing from
Connecticut, is of record Mutighticos and Matightekonks, translated by
Dr. Trumbull from _Mat'uhtugh-ohke,_ "Place without wood," from which
extended to the stream. (See Mattituck and Sackonck.)

Navish is claimed as the name of Teller's (now Croton) Point, on a
reading of the Indian deed of 1683: "All that parcel, neck or point of
land, with the meadow ground or valley adjoining, situate, lying and
being on the east side of the river over against Verdrietig's Hooke,
commonly called and known by the name of Slauper's Haven and by the
Indians Navish, the meadow being called by the Indians Senasqua."
Clearly, Navish refers to Verdrietig Hook, on the west side of the
river, where it is of record. It is an equivalent of _Newás_ (Len.),
"promontory." (See Nyack-on-the-Hudson.)

Nannakans, given as the name of a clan residing on Croton River, is an
equivalent of _Narragans_ (_s_ foreign plural), meaning "People of the
point," the locative being Croton Point. (See Nyack.) This clan, crushed
by the war of 1643-5, removed to the Raritan country, where, by
dialectic exchange of _n_ and _r,_ they were known as Raritanoos, or
Narritans. They were represented, in 1649, by Pennekeck, "The chief
behind the Kul, having no chief of their own." (Col. Hist. N. Y., xiii.)
The interpretation given to their removal, by some writers, viz., "That
the Wappingers removed to New Jersey," is only correct in a limited
sense. The removal was of a single clan or family. The Indians on both
sides of the Hudson here were of kindred stock and were largely
intermarried. (See Raritans and Pomptons.)

Senasqua, quoted as the name of Teller's Point (now Croton Point), and
also as the name of Teller's Neck, is described as "A meadow,"
presumably on the neck or point. It is an equivalent of Del.
_Lenaskqual,_ "Original grass," (Zeisb.), _i. e._ grass which was
supposed to have grown on the land from the beginning. (Heck.) Called
"Indian grass" to distinguish it from "Whitemen's grass." [FN]

                          * * * * *

 [FN] _Askquall,_ or _Askqua,_ is an inanimate plural in the termination
 _-all, -al,_ or _-a._ All grass was not described by _Maskik,_ in which
 the termination _-ik_ is the animate plural.


Peppeneghek is a record form of the name quoted as that of what is now
known as Cross-river.

Kewighecack, the name of a boundmark of Van Cortlandt's Manor, is
written on the map of the Manor _Keweghteuack_ as the name of a bend in
the Croton west of Pine Bridge. It is from _Koua, Kowa, Cuwé,_
"Pine"--_Cuwé-uchac,_ "Pine wood, pine logs." (Zeisb.)

Kestaubniuk is entered on Van der Donck's map as the name of an Indian
place or village north of Sing Sing. On Vischer's map the orthography
is _Kestaubocuck._ Dr. Schoolcraft wrote _Kestoniuck,_ "Great Point,"
and claimed that the last word had been borrowed and applied to Nyack
on the opposite side of the river, but this is a mistake as Nyack is
generic and of local record where it now is as early as 1660, and is
there correctly applied. No one seems to know where Kestaubniuk was, but
the name is obviously from _Kitschi-bonok,_ "Great ground-nut place."
_Ketche-punak_ and _Ketcha-bonac,_ L. I., _K'schobbenak,_ Del.

Menagh, entered in Indian deed to Van Cortlandt, 1683, as the name of
what is now known as Verplanck's Point, is probably from _Menach'en_
(Del.), the indefinite form of _Menátes,_ diminutive, meaning "Small
island." The point was an island in its separation from the main land
by a water course. Monack, Monach, Menach, are other orthographies of
the name.

Tammoesis is of record as the name of a small stream north of Peekskill.

Appamaghpogh, now _Amawalk,_ seems to have been extended to a tract of
land without specific location. It is presumed to have been the name of
a fishing place on what is now known as Mohegan Lake _Appéh-ama-paug,_
"Trap fishing place," or pond. _Amawalk,_ is from _Nam'e-auke,_
"Fishing-place," (Trumbull.) In the Massachusetts dialect _-pogh_ stands
for "pond," or water-place.

Keskistkonck, Pasquasheck, and Nochpeem are noted on Van der Donck's map
in the Highlands. In Colonial History is the entry (1644),
"Mongochkonnome and Papenaharrow, chiefs of Wiquseskkack and Nochpeems."
On the east side of the river, apparently about opposite the Donderberg,
is located, on early maps, the _Pachimi,_ who, in turn, are associated
in records with the _Tankitekes._ Pacham is given as the name of a noted
chief of the early period. His clan was probably the Pachimi.
Keskistkonck was a living name as late as 1663, but disappears after
that date. "The Kiskightkoncks, who have no chief now, but are counted
among the foregoing savages." (Col. Hist. N. Y., xiii, 303.)

Sachus, Sachoes and Sackoack are quoted as names of Peekskill, and
_Magrigaries_ as the name of the stream. The latter is an orthography
of _MacGregorie's,_ from Hugh MacGregorie, an owner of lands on the
stream. [FN-1] Though quoted as the name of Peak's Kill, it was the name
given to a small creek south of that stream, as per map of 1776.
_Sachus_ and _Sachoes_ are equivalents, and probably refer to the mouth
or outlet of the small or MacGregorie's Creek--_Sakoes_ or _Saukoes._
_Sackonck_ has substantially the same meaning--_Sakunk,_ "At the mouth
or outlet of a creek or river." There was, however, a resident sachem
who was called _Sachoes,_ probably from his place of residence, but
which can be read "Black Kettle," from _Suckeu,_ "black," and _ōōs,_
"kettle." Peekskill is modern from Peak's Kill, so called from Jan Peak,
[FN-2] the founder of the settlement. The Indian name of the stream is
noted, in deed of 1695, "Called by the Indians _Paquintuk,_" probably
an equivalent of _Pokqueantuk,_ "A broad, open place in a tidal river or
estuary." Peekskill Bay was probably referred to. (See Sackonck.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] Hugh MacGregorie was son of Major Patrick MacGregorie, the first
 settler in the present county of Orange. He was killed in the Leisler
 rebellion in New York in 1691. The son, Hugh, and his mother, were
 granted 1500 acres of land "At a place called John Peaches creek." No
 fees were charged for the patent out of respect for the memory of Major
 MacGregorie, as he then had "lately died in His Majesty's service in
 defence of the Province." (Doc. Hist. N. Y., ii, 364.) MacGregories
 sold to Van Cortlandt in 1696.

 [FN-2] Peake, an orthography of _Peak,_ English; Dutch, _Piek_;
 pronounced _Pek_ (_e_ as _e_ in wet); English, _Pek_ or _Peck._


Kittatinny, erroneously claimed to mean "Endless hills," and to describe
the Highlands as a continuation of the Allegheny range, belongs to
Anthony's Nose [FN-1] to which, however, it has no very early record
application. It is from _Kitschi,_ "Principal, greatest," and _-atinny,_
"Hill, mountain," applicable to any principal mountain peak compared
with others in its vicinity. [FN-2]

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] The origin of the name is uncertain. Estevan Gomez, a Spanish
 navigator, wrote "St. Anthony's River" as the name of the Hudson, in
 1525. The current explanation, "Antonius Neus, so called from fancied
 resemblance to the nose of one Anthony de Hoages," is a myth. The name
 as the early Dutch understood it, is no doubt more correctly explained
 by Jasper Bankers and Peter Sluyter in their Journal of 1679-80: "A
 headland and high hill in the Highlands, so called because it has a
 sharp ridge running up and down in the form of a nose," but fails to
 explain St. Anthony, or Latin Antonius. The name appears also on the
 Mohawk river and on Lake George, presumably from resemblance to the
 Highland peak.

 [FN-2] The Indians had no names for mountain ranges, but frequently
 designated certain peaks by specific names. "Among these aboriginal
 people," wrote Heckewelder, "every tree was not the tree, and every
 mountain the mountain; but, on the contrary, everything is
 distinguished by its specific name." Kittatinny was and is the most
 conspicuous or greatest hill of the particular group of hills in its
 proximity and was spoken of as such in designating the boundmark.


Sacrahung, or Mill River, "takes its name from _Sacra,_ 'rain.' Its
liability to freshets after heavy rains, may have given origin to the
name." (O'Callaghan.) Evidently, however, the name is a corruption of
_Sakwihung_ (Zeish.), "At the mouth of the river." The record reads,
"A small brook or run called Wigwam brook, but by some falsely called
Sackwrahung." (Deed of 1740.)

Quinnehung, a neck of land at the mouth and west side of Bronx River, is
presumed to have been the name of Hunter's Point. The adjectival
_Quinneh,_ is very plainly an equivalent of _Quinnih_ (Eliot), "long,"
and _-ung_ or _-ongh_ may stand for place--"A long place, or neck of
land." (See Aquchung.)

Sackonck and Matightekonck, record names of places petitioned for by
Van Cortlandt in 1697, are located in general terms, in the petition,
in the neighborhood of John Peak's Creek and Anthony's Nose. (Cal. N. Y.
Land Papers, 49.) The first probably referred to the mouth of Peak's
Creek (Peekskill). _Sakunk_ (Heck.), "At the mouth or outlet of a creek
or river." _Saukunk_ (Donck) is another form. (See Titicus.)

Aquehung, Acqueahounck, etc., was translated by Dr. O'Callaghan, "The
place of peace." from _Aquene,_ Nar., "peace," and _unk,_ locative.
Dr. Trumbull wrote, "A place _on this side_ of some other place," from
the generic _Acq._ The description in N. Y. Land Papers reads, "Bounded
on the east by the river called by the Indians Aquehung," the river
taking its name from its position as a boundary "on this side" of which
was the land. The contemporary name, _Ran-ahqua-ung,_ means "A place on
the other side," corresponding with the description, "On the other side
of the Great Kil." Bolton assigns Acqueahounck to Hutchinson's Creek,
the west boundary of the town of Pelham. The "Great Kil" is now the
Bronx.

Kakeout, the name of the highest hill in Westchester County, is from
Dutch _Kijk-uit,_ "Look-out--a place of observation, as a tower, hill,"
etc. It appears also in Rockland and in Ulster County and on the Mohawk.
(See Kakiate.)

Shappequa, a name now applied to the Shappequa Hills and to a mineral
spring east of Sing-Sing, and destined to be remembered as that of the
home of Horace Greeley, was primarily given to locate a tract now
embraced in the towns of New Castle and Bedford, and, as in all such
cases, was a specific place by which the location could be identified,
but which in turn has never been identified. The name is apparently a
form of _Chepi_ written also _Chappa,_ signifying, "Separated, apart
from, a distinct place." [FN] (See Kap-hack.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The word _Chippe_ or _Shappa,_ means not only separate, "The
 separate place," but was employed to describe a future
 condition--Chepeck, the dead. As an adjective, _Chippe_ (El.) signifies
 separated, set apart. _Chepiohkomuk,_ the place of separation. The same
 word was used for 'ghost,' 'spectre,' 'evil spirit.' (Trumbull.) The
 corresponding Delaware word was _Tschipey._ It is not presumed that the
 word was made use of here in any other sense than its literal
 application, "A separate place." Bolton assigns the name to a Laurel
 Swamp, but with doubtful correctness.


Aspetong, a bold eminence in Bedford, is an equivalent of _Ashpohtag,_
Mass., "A high place," "A height." (Trumbull.) See Ishpatinau.

Quarepos, of record as the name of the district of country called by the
English "White Plains," from the primary prevalence there of white
balsam (Dr. O'Callaghan), seems to have been the name of the lake now
known as St. Mary's. _Quar_ is a form of _Quin, Quan,_ etc., meaning
"Long," and _pos_ stands for _pog_ or _paug,_ meaning "Pond." The name
is met in _Quin'e-paug,_ "Long Pond." The pond lies along the east
border of the town of White Plains.

Peningo, the point or neck of land forming the southeastern extremity
of the town of Rye, [FN] was interpreted by Dr. Bolton, with doubtful
correctness: "From _Ponus,_ an Indian chief." The neck is some nine
miles long by about two miles broad and seems to have been primarily
a region of ridges and swamps.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Rye is from Rye, England. The derivative is _Ripe_ (Latin),
 meaning, "The bank of a river." In French, "The sea-shore."


Apanammis, Cal. N. Y, Land Papers; Apauamis and Apauamin, Col. Hist.
N. Y.: Apawammeis, Apawamis, Apawqunamis, Epawames, local and Conn.
Records, is given as the name of Budd's Neck, between Mamaroneck River
and Blind Brook, Westchester County. Dr. Trumbull passed the name
without explanation. It is written as the name of a boundmark.

Mochquams and Moagunanes are record forms of the name of Blind Brook,
one of the boundary streams of the tract called Penningo, which is
described as lying "between Blind Brook and Byram River." (See Armonck.)

Magopson and Mangopson are orthographies of the name given as that of
De Lancey's Neck, described as "The great neck." (See Waumaniuck.) The
dialect spoken in eastern Westchester seems to have been _Quiripi_ (or
Quinipiac), which prevailed near the Sound from New Haven west.

Armonck, claimed as the name of Byram's River, was probably that of a
fishing place. In 1649 the name of the stream is of record, "Called by
the Indians _Seweyruck._" In the same record the land is called _Haseco_
and a meadow _Misosehasakey,_ interpreted by Dr. Trumbull, "Great fresh
meadow," or low wet lands. _Haseco_ has no meaning; it is now assigned
to Port Chester (Saw-Pits), and _Misosehasakey_ to Horse Neck. Armonck
has lost some of its letters. What is left of it indicates _Amaug,_
"fishing place." (Trumbull's Indian Names.)

Eauketaupucason, the name written as that of the feature in the village
of Rye known by the unpleasant English title of "Hog-pen Ridge," is,
writes Mr. William R. Gerard, "Probably an equivalent of Lenape
_Ogid-ápuchk-essen,_ meaning, 'There is rock upon rock,' or one rock
on another rock." Topography not ascertained.

Manussing--in will of Joseph Sherwood, _Menassink_--an island so called
in the jurisdiction of Rye, may be an equivalent of _Min-assin-ink,_
"At a place of small stones," _Minneweis,_ now City Island, is in the
same jurisdiction.

Mamaroneck, now so written as the name of a town in Westchester County,
is of record, in 1644, Mamarrack and Mamarranack; later, Mammaranock,
Mamorinack, Mammarinickes (1662), primarily as that of a "Neck or parcel
of land," but claimed to be from the name of an early sachem of the
Kitchtawanks whose territory was called Kitchtawanuck. [FN] Wm. R.
Gerard explains: "The dissyllabic root, _mamal,_ or _mamar,_ means 'To
stripe;' _Mamar-a-nak,_ 'striped arms,' or eyebrows, as the name of an
Indian chief who painted his arms in stripes or radiated his eyebrows,"
a custom noted by several early writers. There is no evidence that the
Kitchtawanuck sachem had either residence or jurisdiction here, nor is
his name signed to any deed in this district. The reading in one record,
"Three stripes or strips of land," seems to indicate that the name was
descriptive of the necks or strips of land. (See Waumaniuck.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN] "Mamarranack and Waupaurin, chiefs of Kitchawanuck." (Col. Hist.
 N. Y., xiii, 17.) The Kitchawan is now known as Croton river. It has
 no connection whatever with Mamaroneck.


Waumaniuck and Maumaniuck, forms of the name of record as that of the
eastern part of De Lancey's Neck, or Seaman's Point, Westchester County,
as stated in the Indian deed of 1661, which conveyed to one John
Richbell "three necks of land," described as "Bounded on the east by
Mamaroneck River, and on the west by Gravelly or Stony Brook" (Cal.
N. Y. Land Papers, 5), the latter by the Indians called Pockotesse-wacke,
came to be known as Mamaraneck Neck, otherwise described as "The great
neck of land at Mamaroneck."

Pockotessewacke, given as the name of what came to be known as "Gravelly
or Stony Brook," and "Beaver-meadow Brook," [FN] has been translated by
Wm. R. Gerard, from "_Petuk-assin-icke,_ 'where there are numerous round
stones'"; a place from which the name was extended to the stream, or
the name of a place in the stream where there were numerous round
stones, _i. e._ paving stones or "hard-heads." _Esse (esseni)_ from
_assin,_ "stone," means "stony, flinty."

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Pockotessewacke and Beaver-meadow Brook. (Cal. N. Y. Land Papers.)



[Illustration: Cro' Nest Mountain]



Manuketesuck, quoted by Bolton (Hist. West. Co.) as the name of Long
Island Sound and interpreted, "Broad flowing river," was more correctly
explained by Dr. Trumbull: "Apparently a diminutive of _Manunkatesuck,_
'Menhaden country,' from _Munongutteau,_ 'that which fertalizes or
manures land,' the Indian name for white fish or bony fish, which were
taken in great numbers by the Indians, on the shores of the Sound, for
manuring their corn lands."

Moharsic is said to have been the name of what is now known as
Crom-pond, in the town of Yorktown. The pond is in two parts, and the
name may mean, "Where two ponds meet," or come together. _Crom-pond_ is
corrupt Dutch from _Krom-poel,_ "Crooked pond."

Maharness, the name of a stream rising in Westchester County and flowing
east to the Sound, is also written _Mianus_ and _Mahanus,_ in Dutch
records _Mayane,_ correctly _Mayanno._ It was the name of "a sachem
residing on it between Greenwich and Stamford, Ct., who was killed by
Capt. Patrick, in 1643, and his head cut off and sent to Fort
Amsterdam." (Brodhead, i, 386.) Dr. Trumbull interpreted, "He who
gathers together." _Kechkawes_ is written as the name of the stream in
1640.

Nanichiestawack, given as the name of an Indian village on the southern
spur of Indian Hill (so called) in the town of Bedford, rests on
tradition.

Petuckquapaug, a pond in Greenwich, Ct., but originally under the
jurisdiction of the Dutch at Fort Amsterdam, signifies "Round Pond."
It is now called "Dumpling Pond." The Dutch changed the suffix to _paen,_
"soft land," and in that form described an adjacent district of low
land. (See Tappan.)

Katonah, the name of a sachem, is preserved in that of a village in the
town of Bedford. The district was known as "Katonah's land." In deed
of 1680, the orthography is Katōōnah--oo as in food.

Succabonk, a place-name in the town of Bedford, stands for Sagabonak-ong,
"Place of ground nuts," or wild potatoes. (See Sagabonock.)

Wequehackhe is written by Reichel ("Mem. Moravian Church") as the name
of the Highlands, with the interpretation, "The hill country"--"People
of the hill country." The name has no such meaning. _Weque_ or _Wequa,_
means "The end," and _-hackhe_ (hacki) means "Land," not up-land. In
other words, the boundary was the end of the Highlands.' [FN]

                          * * * * *

 [FN] "_Hacki,_ land; _Len-hacki,_ up-land." (Zeisberger.) "When they
 speak of highlands they say _Lennihacke,_ original lands; but they do
 not apply the same name to low lands, which, being generally formed by
 the overflowing or washing of streams, cannot be called original."
 (Heckewelder.)


Mahopack, the modern form of the name of a lake in Putnam County, is of
record _Makoohpeck_ in 1765, and _Macookpack_ on Sauthier's map of 1774,
which seem to stand for _M'achkookpéeck_ (_Ukh-okpeck,_ Mah.), meaning
"Snake Lake," or "Water where snakes are abundant." (See Copake.) In
early years snakes were abundant in the region about the lake, and are
not scarce in present times. [FN] The lake is ten miles in circumference
and lies sixteen hundred feet above the level of Hudson's River. It
contains two or three small islands, on the largest of which is the
traditionally famous "Chieftain's Rock."

                          * * * * *

 [FN] A wild, wet region among the hills, where the rattlesnake
 abounded. They were formerly found in all parts of the Highlands, and
 are still met frequently.


Canopus, claimed to have been the name of an Indian sachem and now
preserved in Canopus Hollow, Putnam County, is not Indian; it is Latin
from the Greek name of a town in Egypt. "_Can'pus,_ the Egyptian god
of water." (Webster.)

Wiccopee is of record as the name of the highest peak in the Fishkill
Mountains on the south border of East Fishkill. It is also assigned to
the pass or clove in the range through which ran the Indian path, now
the present as well as the ancient highway between Fishkill Village and
Peekskill, which was fortified in the war of the Revolution. An Indian
village is traditionally located in the pass, of which "one Wikopy" is
named as chief on the same authority. The name, however, has no
reference to a pass, path, village or chief; it is a pronunciation of
_Wecuppe,_ "The place of basswoods or linden trees," from the inner bark
of which (_wikopi_) "the Indians made ropes and mats--their tying bark
par excellence." (Trumbull.) "_Wikbi_, bast, the inner bark of trees."
(Zeisberger.) In Webster and The Century the name is applied to the
Leather-wood, a willowy shrub with a tough, leathery bark.

Matteawan, now so written, has retained that orthography since its first
appearance in 1685 in the Rombout Patent, which reads: "Beginning on
the south side of a creek called Matteawan," the exact boundmark being
the north side or foot of the hill known as Breakneck (_Matomps'k_). It
has been interpreted in various ways, that most frequently quoted
appearing in Spofford's Gazetteer: "From _Matai,_ a magician, and
_Wian,_ a skin; freely rendered, 'Place of good furs,'" which never
could have been the meaning; nor does the name refer to mountains to
which it has been extended. Wm. R. Gerard writes: "_Matáwan,_ an
impersonal Algonquian verb, meaning, 'It debouches into,' _i. e._ 'a
creek or river into another body of water,' substantially, 'a
confluence.'" This rendering is confirmed by Albert S. Gatschet, of the
Bureau of Ethnology, who writes: "Mr. Gerard is certainly right when he
explains the radix _mat--mata_--by confluence, junction, debouching,
and forming verbs as well as roots and nouns." _-A'wan, -wan -uan,_
etc., is an impersonal verb termination; it appears only in connection
with impersonal verbs. (See Waronawanka.) Matteawan is met in several
forms--Matawa and Mattawan, Ontario, Canada; Mattawan, Maine; Matawan,
Monmouth County, N. J.; Mattawanna, Pa.; Mattawoman, Maryland.

Fishkill, the English name of the stream of which Matteawan is the
estuary, is from Dutch _Vischer's Kil._ It was probably applied by the
Dutch to the estuary from _Vischer's Rak_ which the Dutch applied to a
reach or sailing course on the Hudson at this point. De Laet wrote:
"A place which our country-men call Vischer's Rack, [FN] that is
Fisherman's Bend." (See Woranecks.) On the earlier maps the stream, or
its estuary, is named _Vresch Kil,_ or "Fresh-water Kil," to distinguish
it from the brackish water of the Hudson. From the estuary extended to
the entire stream.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Rack is obsolete; the present word is _Recht._ It describes an
 almost straight part of the river.


Woranecks, Carte Figurative 1614-16; _Waoranecks,_ 1621-25; _Warenecker,_
Wassenaer; _Waoranekye,_ De Laet, 1633-40; _Waoranecks,_ Van der Donck's
map, 1656--is located on the Carte Figurative north of latitude 42-15, on
the east side of the river. De Laet and Van der Donck place it between
what are now known as Wappingers' Creek and Fishkill Creek. De Laet
wrote: "Where projects a sandy point and the river becomes narrower,
there is a place called Esopus, where the Waoranekys, another barbarous
nation, have their abode." Later, Esopus became permanent on the west
side of the river at Kingston. It is a Dutch corruption of Algonquian
_Sepus,_ meaning brook, creek, etc., applicable to any small stream.
From De Laet's description, [FN] there is little room for doubt that the
"sandy point" to which he referred is now known as Low Point, opposite
the Dans Kamer, at the head of Newburgh Bay, where the river narrows,
or that Esopus was applied to Casper's Creek. On Van der Donck's map the
"barbarous nation" is given three castles on the south side of the
stream, which became known later (1643) as the Wappingers, who certainly
held jurisdiction on the east side of Newburgh Bay. The adjectival of
the name is no doubt from _Wáro,_ or _Waloh,_ meaning "Concave,
hollowing," a depression in land, low land, the latter expressed in
_ock (ohke),_ "land" or place. The same adjectival appears in
_Waronawanka_ at Kingston, and the same word in _Woronake_ on the Sound
at Milford, Ct., where the topography is similar. The foreign plural
_s_ extends the meaning to "Dwellers on," or inhabitants of. (See
Wahamenesing and {Waro?}nawanka.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN] . . . "And thus with various windings it reaches a place which our
 countrymen call Vischer's Rack, that is the Fisherman's Bend. And here
 the eastern bank is inhabited by the Pachimi. A little beyond where
 projects a sandy point and the river becomes narrower, there is a place
 called Esopus, where the Waoranekys, another barbarous nation, have
 their abode. To these succeed, after a short interval, the
 Waranawankconghs, on the opposite side of the river." (De Laet.)

 "At the Fisher's Hook are the Pachany, Wareneckers," etc. (Wassenaer.)


Mawenawasigh, so written in the Rombout Patent of 1684, covering lands
extending from Wappingers' Creek to the foot of the hills on the north
side of Matteawan Creek, was the name of the north boundmark of the
patent and not that of Wappingers' Creek. The Indian deed reads:
"Beginning on the south side of a creek called Matteawan, from thence
northwardly along Hudson's river five hundred yards _beyond_ the Great
Wappingers creek or kill, called Mawenawasigh." The stream was given
the name of the boundmark and was introduced to identify the place that
was five hundred yards north of it, _i. e._ the rocky point or
promontory through which passes the tunnel of the Hudson River R. R. at
New Hamburgh. The name is from _Mawe,_ "To meet," and _Newásek,_ [FN]
"A point or promontory"--literally, "The promontory where another
boundary is met." The assignment of the name to Wappingers' Falls is as
erroneous as its assignment to the creek.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] _Nawaas,_ on the Connecticut, noted on the Carte Figurative of
 1614-16, is very distinctly located at a point on the head-waters of
 that river.

 _Neversink_ is a corruption of _Newas-ink,_ "At the point or promontory."


Wahamanesing is noted by Brodhead (Hist. N. Y.) as the name of
Wappingers' Creek--authority not cited and place where the stream was
so called not ascertained. The initial W was probably exchanged for M
by mishearing, as it was in many cases of record. _Mah_ means "To meet,"
_Amhannes_ means "A small river," and the suffix _-ing_ is locative. The
composition reads: "A place where streams come together," which may have
been on the Hudson at the mouth of the creek. In Philadelphia
_Moyamansing_ was the name of a marsh bounded by four small streams.
(N. Y. Land Papers, 646.) Dr. Trumbull in his "Indian Names on the
Connecticut," quoted _Mahmansuck_ (Moh.), in Connecticut, with the
explanation, "Where two streams come together." The name was extended
to the creek as customary in such cases. The Wahamanesing flows from
Stissing Pond, in northern Duchess County, and follows the center of a
narrow belt of limestone its entire length of about thirty-five miles
southwest to the Hudson, which it reaches in a curve and passes over a
picturesque fall of seventy-five feet to an estuary. From early Dutch
occupation it has been known or called Wappinck (1645), Wappinges and
Wappingers' Kill or creek, taking that name presumably from the clan
which was seated upon it of record as "Wappings, Wappinges, Wapans, or
Highland Indians." [FN-1] On Van der Donck's map three castles or
villages of the clan are located on the south side or south of the
creek, indicating the inclusion in the tribal jurisdiction of the lands
as far south as the Highlands. From Kregier's Journal of the "Second
Esopus War" (1663), it is learned that they had a principal castle in
the vicinity of Low Point and that they maintained a crossing-place to
Dans Kamer Point. Their name is presumed to have been derived from
generic _Wapan,_ "East"--_Wapani,_ "Eastern people" [FN-2]--which could
have been properly applied to them as residents on the east side of the
river, not "Eastern people" as that term is applied to residents of the
more Eastern States, but locally so called by residents on the west side
of the Hudson, or by the Delawares as the most eastern nation of their
own stock. They were no doubt more or less mixed by association and
marriage with their eastern as well as their western neighbors, but
were primarily of Lenape or Delaware origin, and related to the Minsi,
Monsey or Minisink clans on the west side of the river, though not
associated with them in tribal government. [FN-3] Their tribal
jurisdiction, aside from that which was immediately local, extended on
the east side of the river from Roelof Jansen's Kill (south of opposite
to the Catskill) to the sea. At their northern bound they met the tribe
known to the Dutch as the Mahicans, a people of eastern origin and
dialect, whose eastern limit included the valley of the Housatonic at
least, and with them in alliance formed the "Mahican nation" of Dutch
history, as stated by King Ninham of the Wappingers, in an affidavit in
1757, and who also stated that the language of the Mahicans was _not the
same_ as that of the Wappingers, although he understood the Mahicani.
Reduced by early wars with the Dutch around New Amsterdam and by contact
with European civilization, they melted away rapidly, many of them
finding homes in New Jersey and Pennsylvania, others at Stockbridge,
and a remnant living at Fishkill removing thence to Otsiningo, in 1737,
as wards of the Senecas. (Col. Hist. N. Y., vii, 153, 158.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] "Highland Indians" was a designation employed by the Dutch as
 well as by the English. (Col. Hist. N. Y., viii, 440.)

 [FN-2] The familiar historic name _Wappingers_ seems to have been
 introduced by the Dutch from their word _Wapendragers,_ "Armed men."
 The tribe is first met of record in 1643, when they attacked boats
 coming down from Fort Orange. (Doc. Hist. N. Y., iv, 12.) A map of
 1690 gives them a large settlement on the south side of the creek.
 There is no _Opossum_ in the name, as some writers read it, although
 some blundering clerk wrote _Oping_ for _Waping._

 [FN-3] The relations between the Esopus Indians and the Wappingers were
 always intimate and friendly, so much so that when the Mohawks made
 peace with the Esopus Indians, in 1669, and refused to include the
 Wappingers, it was feared by the government that further trouble would
 ensue from the "great correspondence and affinity between them." (Col.
 Hist. N. Y., xiii, 427.) "Affinity," relationship by marriage, kinship
 generally.

 Gov. Tryon, in his report in 1774, no doubt stated the facts correctly
 when he wrote that the "Montauks and others of Long Island, Wappingers
 of Duchess County, Esopus, Papagoncks, &c., of Ulster County, generally
 denominated River Indians, spoke a language radically the same," and
 were "understood by the Delawares, being originally of the same race."
 (Doc Hist. N. Y., i, 765.)


Poughquag, the name of a village in the town of Beekman, Duchess County,
and primarily the name of what is now known as Silver Lake, in the
southeast part of the town, is from _Apoquague,_ (Mass.), meaning, "A
flaggy meadow," which is presumed to have adjoined the lake. It is from
_Uppuqui,_ "Lodge covering," and _-anke,_ "Land" or place. (Trumbull.)

Pietawickquassick, a brook so called which formed a bound-mark of a
tract of land conveyed by Peter Schuyler in 1699, described as "On the
east side of Hudson's River, over against Juffrou's Hook, at a place
called by the Christians Jan Casper's Creek." The creek is now known as
Casper's Creek. It is the first creek north of Wappingers' Kill.
Schuyler called the place _Rust Plaest_ (Dutch, Rust-plaats), meaning
"Resting place, or place of peace." The Indian name has not been
located. It is probably a form or equivalent of _P'tukqu-suk,_ "A bend
in a brook or outlet."

Wassaic, a village and a creek so called in the town of Amenia, Duchess
County, appears in N. Y. records in 1702, _Wiesasack,_ as the name of
a tract of land "lying to the southward of Wayanaglanock, to the
westward of Westenhoek creek." (Cal. N. Y. Land Papers, 58); later,
"Near a place called Weshiack" (Ib. 65), "and thence northerly to a place
called Wishshiag, and so on about a mile northwest of ye Allum rocks."
[FN] (Ib. 75.) The name seems to have been applied to the north end of
West Mountain, where is located the ravine known as the Dover Stone
Church, about half a mile west of the village of Dover Plains. The
ravine is 20 to 25 feet wide at the bottom, 1 to 3 feet at the top,
30 to 40 feet long, and 40 to 50 feet high, hence called a church. The
Webotuck, a tributary of Ten Mile River, flows through the ravine. Dr.
Trumbull ("Indian Names in Connecticut") wrote: "_Wassiog,_ (Moh.),
alternate _Washiack,_ a west bound of the Mohegan country claimed by
Uncas; 'the south end of a very high hill' very near the line between
Glastonbury and Hebron," a place near Hartford, Conn., but failed to
give explanation of the name.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] _Wallam_--the initial _W_ dropped--literally, "Paint rocks," a
 formation of igneous rock which, by exposure, becomes disintegrated
 into soft earthy masses. There are several varieties. The Indians used
 the disintegrated masses for paint. The name is met in some forms in
 all Algonquian dialects. (See Wallomschack.)


Weputing, Weepitung, Webotuck, Weepatuck (N. Y. and Conn. Rec.), given
as the name of a "high mountain," in the Sackett Patent, was translated
by Dr. Trumbull, from Conn. Records: "_Weepatuck,_ 'Place of the narrow
pass,' or 'strait.'" (See Wassaic.)

Querapogatt, a boundmark of the Sackett Patent, is, apparently, a
compound of _Quenne,_ "long," _pog_ (paug), "pond," and _att_
locative--"Beginning at the (a) long pond." The name is met in
_Quine-baug,_ without locative suffix, signifying "Long Pond" simply.

She'kom'eko, preserved as the name of a small stream which rises near
Federal Square, Duchess County, and flows thence north to Roelof
Jansen's Kill, was primarily the name of an Indian village conspicuous
in the history of the labors of the Moravian missionaries. [FN-1] It was
located about two miles south of Pine Plains in the valley of the
stream. Dr. Trumbull translated: "_She'com'eko,_ modern _Chic'omi'co,_
from _-she, -che_ (from _mishe_ or _k'che_), 'great,' and _comaco,_
'house,' or 'enclosed place'--'the great lodge,', or 'the great
village.'" [FN-2] We have the testimony of Loskiel that the occupants
of the village were "Mahicander Indians."

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] The field of the labors of the Moravian missionaries extended
 to Wechquadnach, Pachquadnach, Potatik, Westenhoek and Wehtak, on the
 Housatenuc. _Wechquadnach_ (Wechquetank, Loskiel) was at the end of
 what is now known as Indian Pond, lying partly in the town of North
 East, Duchess County, and partly in Sharon, Conn. It was the Gnadensee,
 or "Lake of Grace," of the missionaries. _Wequadn'ach_ means "At the
 end of the mountain" between which and the lake the Indian village
 stood. _Pachquadn'ach_ was on the opposite side of the pond; it means
 "Clear bare mountain land." _Wehtak_ means "Wigwam place."
 _Pishgachtigok_ (Pach-gat-gock, German notation), was about twenty
 miles south of Shekomeko, at the junction of Ten Mile River and the
 Housatonuc. It means, "Where the river divides," or branches. (See
 Schaghticoke.) _Westenhoek,_ noted above, is explained in another
 connection. _Housatonuc,_ in N. Y. Land Papers _Owassitanuc,_ stands
 for _A-wass-adene-uc,_ Abn.; in Delaware, _Awossi,_ "Over, over there,
 beyond," _-actenne,_ "hill or mountain," with locative _-uk,_ "place,"
 "land"; literally, "A place beyond the hill." (Trumbull.) It is not
 the name of either the hill or the river, to which it was extended,
 but a verbal direction. An Indian village called Potatik by the
 Moravian missionaries, was also on the Housatonuc, and is written in
 one form, _Pateook._

 [FN-2] A translation from the Delaware _Scha-gach-we-u,_ "straight,"
 and _meek_ "fish"--an eel--eel place--has been widely quoted. The
 translation by Dr. Trumbull is no doubt correct.



[Illustration: The Highlands West From Little Stony Brook]



Shenandoah (Shenandoah Corners, East Fishkill) is an Iroquoian name of
modern introduction here. It is met in place in Saratoga County and at
Wyoming, Pa. (See Shannondhoi.)

Stissing, now the name of a hill and of a lake one mile west of the
village of Pine Plains, Duchess County, is probably an apheresis of
_Mistissing,_ a "Great rock," and belongs to the hill, which rises 400
or 500 feet above the valley and is crowned with a mass of naked rock,
described by one writer as "resembling a huge boulder transported there."

Poughkeepsie, now so written, is of record in many forms of which
Pooghkeepesingh, 1683; Pogkeepke, 1702; Pokeapsinck, 1703; Pacaksing,
1704; Poghkeepsie, 1766; Poughkeepsie, 1767, are the earlier. The
locative of the name and the key to its explanation are clearly
determined by the description in a gift deed to Peter Lansing and Jan
Smedes, in 1683: "A waterfall near the bank of the river called
Pooghkeepesingh;" [FN-1] in petition of Peter Lansing and Arnout Velie,
in 1704: "Beginning at a creek called Pakaksing, by ye river side."
[FN-2] There are other record applications, but are probably extensions,
as Poghkeepke (1702), given as the name of a "muddy pond" in the
vicinity. Schoolcraft's interpretation, "Safe harbor," from
_Apokeepsing,_ is questioned by W. R. Gerard, who, from a personal
acquaintance with the locative, "A water-fall," writes: "The name refers
not to the fall, but to the basin of water worn out in the rocks at the
foot of the fall. Zeisberger would have written the word _Āpuchkìpìsink,_
that is, 'At the rock-pool (or basin) of water.' _Ā-puchk-ìpìs-ink_ is
a composition of _-puchk,_ 'rock'; _ipis,_ in composition, 'little
water,' 'pool of water,' 'pond,' 'little lake,' etc." _Pooghk_ is no
doubt from _ápughk_ (apuchk), "rock." The stream has long been known
as the Fall Kill. Primarily there seems to have been three falls upon
it, of which _Matapan_ will be referred to later.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] "This fifth day of May, 1683, appeared before me . . . a
 Highland Indian called Massang, who declared herewith that he has given
 as a free gift, a bouwery (farm) to Pieter Lansingh, and a bouwery to
 Jan Smeedes, a young glazier, also a waterfall near the bank of the
 river, to build a mill thereon. The waterfall is called Pooghkeepesingh
 and the land Minnisingh, situated on the east side of the river." (Col.
 Hist. N. Y., xiii, 571.)

 [FN-2] Cal. N. Y. Land Papers, 71. There are forty-nine record
 orthographies of the term, from which a selection could be made as a
 basis of interpretation. _Poghkeepke,_ for example, might be accepted
 as meaning, "Muddy Pond," although there is neither a word or particle
 in it that would warrant the conclusion.


Wynogkee, Wynachkee, and Winnakee are record forms of the name of a
district of country or place from which it was extended to the stream
known as the Fall Kill "Through which a kill called Wynachkee runs,
. . . including the kill to the second fall called Mattapan," is the
description in a gift deed to Arnout Velie, in 1680, for three flats
of land, one on the north and two on the south side of the kill. "A
flat on the west side of the kil, called Wynachkee" (Col. Hist. N. Y.,
xiii, 545, 572), does not mean that the kill was called Wynachkee, but
the flat of land, to which the name itself shows that it belonged. The
derivatives are _Winne,_ "good, fine, pleasant," and _-aki_ (auke,
ohke), "land" or place; literally, "land." [FN]

                          * * * * *

 [FN] From the root _Wulit,_ Del. From the same root _Winne, Willi,
 Wirri, Waure, Wule,_ etc. The name is met in equivalent forms in
 several places. _Wenaque_ and _Wynackie_ are forms of the name of a
 beautiful valley in Passaic county, N. J. (Nelson.) _Winakaki,_
 "Sassifras land--rich, fat land." _Winak-aki-ng,_ "At the Sassifras
 place," was the Lenape name of Eastern Pennsylvania. (See Wanaksink.)
 Eliot wrote in the Natick (Mass.) dialect, "_Wunohke,_ good land."
 The general meaning of the root is pleasurable sensation.


Mattapan, "the second fall," so called in the deed to Arnout Velie
(1680), was the name of a "carrying place," "the end of a portage,
where the canoe was launched again and its bearers reembarked."
(Trumbull.) A landing place. [FN] "At a place called Matapan, to the
south side thereof, bounded on the west by John Casperses Creek." (Cal.
Land Papers, 108.) (See Pietawick-quasick.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN] _Mattappan,_ a participle of _Mattappu,_ "he sits down," denotes
 "a sitting down place," or as generally employed in local names, the
 end of a portage between two rivers, or from one arm of the sea to
 another--where the canoe was launched again and its bearers reembarked.
 (Trumbull.) In Lenape _Aan_ is a radical meaning, "To move; to go."
 _Paan,_ "To come; to get to"; _Wiket-pann,_ "To get home"; _Paancep,_
 "Arrived"; _Mattalan,_ "To come upto some body"; logically,
 _Mattappan,_ "To stop," to sit down, to land, a landing place.


Minnissingh is written as the name of a tract conveyed to Peter Lansing
and Jan Smedes by gift deed in 1683. (See Poughkeepsie.) _Minnissingh_
is, apparently, the same word that is met in Minnisink, Orange County.
The locative of the tract has not been ascertained, but it was pretty
certainly on the "back" or upper lands. There was no island there. (See
Minnisink.)

Eaquorisink is of record as the name of Crom Elbow Creek, and
_Eaquaquanessìnck_ as that of lands on the Hudson, in patent to Henry
Beekman, the boundary of which ran from the Hudson "east by the side of
a fresh meadow called _Mansakìn_ [FN-1] and a small run of water called
_Mancapawìmick._" In patent to Peter Falconier the land is called
Eaquaquaannessìnck, the meadow Mansakin, the small creek Nanacopaconick,
and Crom Elbow (Krom Elleboog, Dutch, '"crooked elbow'") Creek.
Eaquarysink is a compression of Eaquaquaannessinck. It was not the name
of the creek, but located the boundmark "as far as the small creek."
The composition is the equivalent of _Wequa,_ [FN-2] "end of"; _annes,_
"small stream," and _ink,_ "at," "to," etc.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] "A meadow or marsh land called Manjakan," is an equivalent
 record in Ulster County. (Cal. N. Y. Land Papers, 133.) "A fresh
 meadow," _i. e._ a fresh water meadow, or low lands by the side of the
 creek.

 [FN-2] Enaughqua, L. I.; _Yò anûck quaque,_ Williams; _Wequa, Weque,
 Aqua, Ukwe, Echqu,_ etc., "end of." The word is met in many forms.
 _Wehque,_ "as far as." (Eliot.)


Wawyachtanock, Indian deed to Robert Livingston, 1685; _Wawyachtanock,
Wawijachtanock, Wawigachtanock_ in Livingston Patent and
_Watwijachtonocks_ in association with "The Indians of the Long Reach"
(Doc. Hist. N. Y., 93, 97), is given as the name of a place--"The path
that leads to Wawyachtenock." In a petition for permission to purchase,
in 1702 (Col. Land Papers, 58), the description reads: "A tract of land
lying to the westward of Westenhoeks Creek [FN-1] and to ye eastward of
Poghkeepsie, called by ye Indians _Wayaughtanock._" It is presumed that
the locative of the name is now known as Union Corners, Duchess County,
where Krom Elleboog Creek, after flowing southwesterly, turns at nearly
a right angle and flows west to the Hudson, which it reaches in a
narrow channel between bluffs, a little south of Krom Elbow Point,
where a bend in the Hudson forms the north end of the Long Reach. The
first word of the name is from _Wawai,_ "Round about," "Winding around,"
"eddying," as a current in a bend of a river. The second, _-tan, -ten,
-ton_ means "current," by metonymie, "river," and _ock,_ means "land"
or place--"A bend-of-the-river place." The same name is met in
Wawiachtanos, in the Ohio country, [FN-2] and the prefix in many places.
(See Wawayanda.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] Westenhoek is Dutch. It means "West corner." It was given by
 the Dutch to a tract of land lying in a bend of Housatonuk river, long
 in dispute between New York and Massachusetts, called by the Indians
 W-nagh-tak-ook, for many years the name of the capital town of the
 Mahican nation.(Loskiel.) Rev. Dr. Edwards wrote it Wnoghquetookooke
 and translated it from an intimate acquaintance of the Stockbridge
 dialect, "A bend-of-the-river-place." Mr. Gerard writes it,
 Wamenketukok, "At the winding of the river." Now Stockbridge, Mass.

  [FN-2] "Tjughsaghrondie, alias Wawayachtenok." (Col. Hist. N. Y., iv,
  900; La Trobe's Translation of Loskiel, i, 23.) The first name,
  Tjughsaghrondie, is also written Taghsaglirondie, and in other forms.
  It is claimed to be from the Wyandot or Huron-Iroquoian dialect. In
  History of Detroit the Algonquin is quoted Waweatunong, interpreted
  "Circuitous approach," and the claim made that the reference was to
  the bend in the Strait at Detroit at an elevation "from which a view
  of the whole broad river" could be had. In Shawano, _Wawia'tan_
  describes bending or eddying water--with locative, "Where the current
  winds about." The name is applicable at any place where the features
  exist.


Metambeson, a creek so called in Duchess County, is now known as
Sawkill. It is the outlet of a lake called Long Pond. The Indian name
is from _Matt,_ negative and depreciatory, "Small, unfavorable," etc.,
and _M'beson,_ "Strong water," a word used in describing brandy,
spirits, physic, etc. The rapidity of the water was probably referred
to.

Waraughkameck--Waraukameck--a small lake in the same county, is now
known as "Fever Cot or Pine Swamp." The Indian name is probably an
equivalent of Len. _Wálagh-kamik,_ an enclosed hole or den, a hollow or
excavation.

Aquassing--"At a creek called by the Indians Aquassing, and by the
Christians Fish Creek"--has not been located. _Aquassing_ was the end of
the boundary line, and may be from _Enaughquasink,_ "As far as."

Tauquashqueick, given as the name of a meadow lying between Magdalen
Island [FN] and the main land, now known as "Radcliff's Vly," is
probably an equivalent of _Pauqua-ask-ek._ "Open or clear wet meadow
or vly."

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Magdalen Island is between Upper and Lower Red-hook. The original
 Dutch, Maagdelijn, supposed to mean "A dissolute woman," here means,
 simply, "Maiden," _i. e._ shad or any fish of the herring family. (See
 Magaat Ramis.) The name appears on Van der Donck's map of 1656.


Sankhenak and Saukhenak are record forms of the name given as that of
Roelof Jansen's Kil (Doc. Hist. N. Y., iii, 612; French's Gazetteer.)
_Sauk-hannek_ would describe the mouth or outlet of the stream, and
_Sank-hannek_ would read "Flint-stone creek." Sauk is probably correct.
The purchase included land on both sides of the creek from "A small kil
opposite the Katskil," on the north, called _Wachhanekassik._ "to a
place opposite Sagertyes Kil, called Saaskahampka." The stream is now
known as Livingston's Creek. [FN]

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The creek was the boundmark between the Wappingers and the
 Mahicans. (See Wahamanessing.)


Wachanekassik, Indian deed to Livingston, 1683; _Waghankasick,_ patent
to Van Rensselaer, 1649, and other orthographies, is written as the
name of a small creek which marked the place of beginning of the
northwest boundmark of the Livingston Patent and the place of ending of
the southwest boundmark of the prior Van Rensselaer Patent of Claverack.
The latter reads; ". . . And so along the said Hudson River southward
to the south side of Vastrix Island, by a creek called Waghankasick,
thence easterly to Wawanaquasik," etc. The deed to Livingston conveyed
lands "On both sides of Roelof Jansen's Kill, [FN-1] called by the
Indians Sauk-henak," including lands "along the river's bank from said
Roeloff Jansen's Kill, northwards up, to a small stream opposite
Catskill named Wachanekasseck, and southwards down the river to
opposite the Sagertjes Kill, called by the Indians Saaskahampka." In
the Livingston Patent of 1684: "Eighteen hundred acres of woodland
lying between a small creek or kill lying over against Catskill called
Wachanakasseck and a place called Suaskahampka," and in patent of 1686:
"On the north by a line to be drawn from a certain creek or kill over
against the south side of Vastrix Island in Hudson's River, called
Wachankasigh," to which Surveyor John Beatty added more precisely on
his map of survey in 1715: "Beginning on the east side of Hudson's
River _southward_ from Vastrix Island, _at a place_ where a certain run
of water watereth out into Hudson's River, called in ye Indian tongue,
Wachankassik." The "run of water" is not marked on Beatty's map, nor on
the map of survey of the patent in 1798, but it is marked, from
existence or presumed existence, on a map of the boundary line between
New York and Massachusetts and seems to have been one of the several
small streams that flow down the bluff from the surface, apparently
about two miles and a half north of Roelof Jansen's Kill, in the
vicinity of the old Oak Hill station [FN-2] on the H. R. R., later
known as Catskill station. While referred to in connection with the
boundmark to identify its location, its precise location seems to have
been lost. In early days boundmarks were frequently designated in
general terms by some well known place. Hence we find Catskill spoken
of and particularly "the south end of Vastrix Island," a point that
every voyager on the Hudson knew to be the commencement of a certain
"rak" or sailing course. [FN-3] Hence it was that Van Rensselaer's
first purchase (1630) was bounded on the south by the south end of
Beeren or Mahican Island, and the second purchase by the south end of
Vastrix Island, which became the objective of the northwest bound of
Livingston's Patent. While the name is repeatedly given as that of the
stream, it was probably that of a place or point on the limestone bluff
which here bounds the Hudson on the east for several miles. Surveyor
Beatty's description, "Beginning at a place where," and the omission of
the stream on his map, and its omission on subsequent maps of the manor,
and the specific entry in the amended patent of 1715, "Beginning at a
certain place called by the Indians Wahankassek," admit of no other
conclusion, and the conclusion is, apparently, sustained by the name
itself, which seems to be from Moh. _Wakhununuhkōōsek,_ "A high point,"
as a hill, mountain, peak, bluff, etc., from _Wakhu_, "hill, mountain,"
_uhk,_ "end, point," and _ōōsic,_ "peak, pinnacle." etc. The reference
may have been to a point formed by the channel of the little stream
flowing down from the bluff above, or to some projection, but certainly
to the bluff as the only permanent objective on the Hudson. The
connection of the "small run of water" with the boundmark should
entitle it to more particular description than has been given to it by
local writers.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] Named from Roeloff Jansen, Overseer of the Orphan Court under
 the Dutch Government. (French.)

 [FN-2] Oak Hill station on the Hudson River R. R., about five miles
 south of the city of Hudson, was so called from a hill in the interior
 just north of the line of the town of Livingston, from which the land
 slopes west towards the Hudson and south to Roelof Jansen's Kill.

 [FN-3] _Vastrix_ is a compression of Dutch _t'Vaste Rak_ as written on
 Van der Donck's map of 1656, meaning, "The fast or steady reach or
 sailing course," which began here. The island is the first island
 lying north of the mouth of the Katskill. It is now known as Roger's
 Island.


Nickankook, Kickua and Weckqashake are given as the names of "three
flats" which, with "some small flats," were included in the first
purchase by Livingston, and described as "Situate on both sides" of the
kill called Saukhenak (Roelof Jansen's Kill). The Indian deed also
included all land "Extending along the bank of the river northwards
from Roelof Jansen's Kill to a small stream opposite Catskill named
Wachanekassik." The names of the three flats are variously
spelled--Nickankooke, Nickankook, etc. The first has been translated
by Mr. Wm. R. Gerard from _Nichánhkûk,_ "At the bend in front."
_Kickua,_ the second, is untranslatable. _Wickquashaka, Wequakake,_
etc., is the equivalent of _Wequaohke,_ "End land" or place. The kill
flows through a valley of broad and fertile flats, but near the Hudson
it breaks through the limestone bluff which forms the east line of the
Hudson, and its banks are steep and rocky.

Saaskahampka, Indian deed; _Suaskahampka_ patent of 1684--the southwest
boundmark of the Livingston Patent, is described as "A dry gully at
Hudson's River." It is located about opposite Sawyer's Creek, north of
the present Saugerties or Esopus Creek. _Sasco,_ or as written _Saaska,_
means "A swamp;" _Assisku_ (Del.), "Mud, clay"; _Asuskokámika,_ "Muddy
place," a gully in which no water was flowing. (Gerard.)

Mananosick--"Along the foot of a high mountain to the path that goes to
Wawyactanock to a hill called by the Indians Mananosick." Also written
_Nanosick._ Eliot wrote, in the Natick dialect, _Nahōōsick,_ "Pinnacle,"
or high peak. The indefinite and impersonal _M'_ or _Ma,_ prefixed,
would add "a" or "the" high peak. The hill has not been located except
in a general way as near the Massachusetts line.

Nanapenahakan and Nanipanihekan are orthographies of the name of a
"creek or brook" described as "coming out of a marsh lying near unto
the hills where the heaps of stones lye." The stream flows to Claverack
Creek. The outlet waters of Achkookpeek Lake unite with it, from which
it is now called Copake Creek. It unites with Kinderhook Creek north of
the city of Hudson.

Wawanaquasik, Claverack Patent, 1649; _Wawanaquassick,_ Livingston
Patent of 1686; _Wawauaquassick_ and _Mawauapquassek,_ patent of 1715;
_Mawanaqwassik,_ surveyor's notation, 1715; now written
_Mawanaquassick_--a boundmark of the Claverack Patent of 1649, and also
of the Livingston Patent, is described in the Claverack Patent, "To the
high woodland called Wawanaquasik," and in the Livingston Patent, "_To
a place_ called by the Indians Wawanaqussek, where the heapes of stone
lye, near to the head of a creek called Nanapenahaken, which comes out
of a marsh lying near unto the hills of the said heapes of stones, upon
which the Indians throw another as they pass by, from an ancient custom
among them." The heap of stones here was "on the south side of the path
leading to Wayachtanok," and other paths diverged, showing that the
place was a place of meeting. "To the high woodland," in the description
of 1649, is marked on the map of survey of 1715, "Foot of the hill,"
apparently a particular point, the place of which was identified by the
head of the creek, the marsh and the heap of stones. The name may have
described this point or promontory, or it may have referred to the
place of meeting near the head of the creek, or to the end of the marsh,
but it is claimed that it was the name of the heap of stones, and that
it is from _Miáe,_ or _Miyáe,_ "Together"--_Mawena,_ "Meeting,"
"Assembly"--frequently met in local names and accepted as meaning,
"Where paths or streams or boundaries come together;" and _Qussuk,_
"stone"--"Where the stones are assembled or brought together," "A stone
heap." This reading is of doubtful correctness. Dr. Trumbull wrote that
_Qussuk,_ [FN-1] meaning "stone," is "rarely, perhaps never" met as a
substantival in local names, and an instance is yet to be cited where
it is so used. It is a legitimate word in some connections, however,
Eliot writing it as a noun in _Môhshe-qussuk,_ "A flinty rock," in the
singular number. If used here it did not describe "a heap of stones,"
but a certain rock. On the map of survey of the patent, in 1798, the
second station is marked "Manor Rock," and the third, "Wawanaquassick,"
is located 123 chains and 34 links (a fraction over one and one-half
miles) north of Manor Rock, as the corner of an angle. In the survey of
1715, the first station is "the foot of the hill"--"the high
woodland"--which seems to have been the _Mawan-uhqu-ōōsik_ [FN-2] of the
text. To avoid all question the heap of stones seems to have been
included in the boundary. It now lies in an angle in the line between
the townships of Claverack and Taghkanic, Columbia County, and is by
far the most interesting feature of the locative--a veritable footprint
of a perished race. Similar heaps were met by early European travelers
in other parts of the country. Rev. Gideon Hawley, writing in 1758,
described one which he met in Schohare Valley, and adds that the
largest one that he ever saw was "on the mountain between Stockbridge
and Great Barrington." Mass. (Doc. Hist. N. Y., iii, 1039.) The
significance of the "ancient custom" of casting a stone to these heaps
has not been handed down. Rev. Mr. Sergeant wrote, in 1734, that though
the Indians "each threw a stone as they passed, they had entirely lost
the knowledge of the reason for doing so," and an inquiry by Rev.
Hawley, in 1758, was not attended by a better result. [FN-3] The heaps
were usually met at resting places on the path and the custom of
throwing the stone a sign-language indicating that one of the tribe had
passed and which way he was going, but further than the explanation
that the casting of the stone was "an ancient custom," nothing may be
claimed with any authority. A very ancient custom, indeed, when its
signification had been forgotten.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] Williams wrote in the Narraganset dialect _Qussuck,_ stone;
 _Qussuckanash,_ stones; _Qussuckquon,_ heavy. Zeisberger wrote in the
 Minsi-Lenape, _Ksucquon,_ heavy; _Achsun,_ stone; _Apuchk,_ rock.
 Chippeway, _Assin,_ stone; _Aubik,_ rock. Old Algonquian, _Assin,_
 stone. Eliot wrote in the Natick (Mass.) dialect, _Qussuk,_ a rock;
 _Qussukquanash,_ rocks; _Hussunash,_ stones; _Hussunek,_ lodge or ledge
 of rocks, and for _Hussimek_ Dr. Trumbull wrote _Assinek_ as an
 equivalent, and _Hussun_ or _Hussunash,_ stones, as identical with
 _Qussukqun,_ heavy. Eliot also wrote _-pick_ or _-p'sk,_ in compound
 words, meaning "Rock," or "stone," as qualified by the adjectival
 prefix, _Onap'sk,_ "Standing rock."

 [FN-2] Literally, "A meeting point," or sharp extremity of a hill.

 [FN-3] Doc. Hist. N. Y., iii, 1039. The heap referred to by Rev. Hawley
 was on the path leading to Schohare. It gave name to what was long
 known as the "Stoneheap Patent." The heap is now in the town of
 Esperance and near Sloansville, Schohare County. It is four rods long,
 one or two wide, and ten to fifteen feet high. (French.)


Ahashewaghick and Ahashewaghkameck, the latter in corrected patent of
1715, is given as the name of the northeast boundmark of the Manor of
Livingston, and described as "the northernmost end of the hills that
are to the north of Tachkanick"--specifically by the surveyor, "To a
heap of stones laid together on a certain hill called by the Indians
Ahashawaghkik, by the north end of Taghanick hill or mountain"--has
been translated from _Nash-ané-komuk_ (Eliot), "A place between." Dr.
Trumbull noted _Ashowugh-commocke,_ from the derivatives
quoted--_Nashaué,_ "between"; _-komuk,_ "place," limited, enclosed,
occupied, _i. e._ by "a heap of stones laid together," probably by the
surveyor of the prior Van Rensselaer Patent, of which it was also a
boundmark. The hill is now the northeast comer of the Massachusetts
boundary line, or the north end of Taghkanick hills.

Taghkanick, the name of a town in Columbia County and primarily of a
tract of land included in the Livingston Patent and located "behind
_Potkoke,_" is written _Tachkanick_ in the Indian deed of 1685;
_Tachhanick_ in the Indian deed of 1687-8; "Land called _Tachhanick_
which the owners reserved to plant upon when they sold him _Tachhanick,_
with the land called Quissichkook;" _Tachkanick,_ "having the kill on
one side and the hill on the other"; _Tahkanick_ (Surveyor's notation)
1715--is positively located by the surveyor on the east side of the kill
called by the Indians _Saukhenak,_ and by the purchasers Roelof Jansen's
Kill. Of the meaning of the name Dr. E. B. O'Callaghan wrote:
"_Tachanûk,_ 'Wood place,' literally, 'the woods,' from _Takone,_
'forest,' and _ûk,_ 'place'"; which Dr. Trumbull regarded as "the least
objectionable" of any of the interpretations that had fallen under his
notice, and to which he added: "Literally, 'wild lands,' 'forest.'" It
would seem to be more probable that _Tachk, Taghk, Tachh, Tahk,_ etc.,
represents _Tak_ (Taghk), with formative _an, Taghkan,_ meaning "wood;"
and _ek,_ animate plural added, "Woods," "trees," "forest." Dr.
O'Callaghan's _ûk_ (ook), "Land or place," is not in any of the
orthographies. The deed-sentence, "When they sold him Tachanick," reads
literally, from the name, "When they sold him the woods." The name was
extended to the reserved field, to the stream and to the mountain. [FN]
The latter is familiar to geologists in what is known as the Taconic
rocks. Translations of the name from Del. _Tuphanné,_ "Cold stream,"
and _Tankkanné,_ "Little river," are without merit, although _Tankhanné_
would describe the branch of Roelof Jansen's Kill on which the
plantation was located.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The purchasers claimed but the Indians denied having sold the
 mountain. It was heavily wooded no doubt. Livingston claimed it from
 having bought "the woods." The Moravian missionaries wrote, in 1744,
 _W'takantschan,_ which Dr. Trumbull converted to _Ket-takone-wadchu,_
 "Great woody mountain."


Wichquapakat, Wichquapuchat, Wickquapubon, the latter by the surveyor,
given as the name of the southeast boundmark of the Livingston Patent
and therein described as "the south end of the hills," of which
Ahashawagh-kameck was the north. _Wichqua_ is surely an equivalent of
_Wequa_ (_Wehqua,_ Eliot), "As far as; ending at; the end or extreme,
point." [FN] Now the southwest corner on the Massachusetts line.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Robert Livingston, who wrote most of the Indian names in his
 patent, was a Scotchman. He learned to "talk Dutch" in Rotterdam, and
 picked up an acquaintance with the Indian tongues at Fort Orange
 (Albany). Some of his orthographies are singular combinations.


Mahaskakook, a boundmark in the Livingston Patent, is described, in one
entry, as "A copse," _i. e._ "A thicket of underbrush," and in another
entry, "A cripple bush," _i. e._ "A patch of low timber growth"--Dutch,
_Kreupelbosch,_ "Underwood." Probably the Indian name has, substantially,
the same moaning. _Manask_ (Del.), "Second crop"; _-ask,_ "Green, raw,
immature"; _-ak,_ "wood"; _-ook_ (_ûk_), locative. The location has not
been ascertained.

Nachawawakkano, given as the name of a creek described as a "creek which
comes into another creek," is an equivalent of _Léchau-wakhaune_
(Lenape), "The fork of a river," a stream that forks another stream.
Aupaumut, the Stockbridge Historian, wrote, with locative suffix,
_Naukhuwwhnauk,_ "At the fork of the streams."

Mawichnauk--"the place where the two streams meet being called
Mawichnauk"--means "The fork place," or place where the Nachawawakkano
and the Tawastaweka came together, or where the streams meet or flow
together. In the Bayard Patent the name is written Mawighanuck and
Wawieghanuck. (See Wawighanuck.)

Shaupook and Skaukook are forms of the name assigned to the eastern
division of a stream, "which, a little lower down," was "called
Twastawekah," known later as Claverack Creek. It may be translated from
_Sóhk,_ Mass., "outlet," and _ûk,_ locative, "At the outlet" or mouth
of the stream.

Twastawekah and Tawastawekah, given, in the Livingston Patent, as the
name of Claverack Creek, is described as a place that was below Shaukook,
The root is _Tawa,_ an "open space," and the name apparently an
equivalent of Lenape _Tawatawikunk,_ "At an open place," or an
uninhabited place, a wilderness. _Tauwata-wique-ak,_ "A place in the
wilderness." (Gerard.)

Sahkaqua, "the south end of a small piece of land called Sahkaqua and
Nakawaewick"; "to a run of water on ye east end of a certain flat or
piece of land called in ye Indian tongue, Sahkahka; then south . . . one
hundred and forty rods to . . . where two runs of water come together
on the south side of the said flat; then west . . . to a rock or great
stone on the south corner of another flat or piece of low land called by
the Indians Nakaowasick." (Doc. Hist., iii, 697.) On the surveyor's map
Nakaowasick, the place last named, is changed to Acawanuk. From the
text, _Sahkaqua_ described "Land or place at the outlet or mouth of a
stream," from _Sóhk,_ "outlet," and _-ohke,_ "land" or place. The
second name _Nakawaewick_ (Nakaouaewik, Nakawasick, Acawasik) is
probably from _Nashauewasuck,_ "At (or on) a place between," _i. e._
between the streams spoken of.

Minnischtanock, in the Indian deed to Livingston, 1685, located the end
of a course described as "Beginning on the northwest side of Roelof
Jansen's Kill," and in the patent, "Beginning on the other side of the
creek that runs along the flat or plain land _over against_
Minnisichtanock, and from thence along a small hill to a valley," etc.
The name has been interpreted "Huckleberry-hill place," from _Min,_
"Small fruit or grain of any kind"; _-achtenne,_ "hill"; _-ûk,_ locative.

Kackkawanick, written also Kachtawagick, Kachkawyick, and Kachtawayick,
is described in the deed, as "A high place to the westward of a high
mountain." Location has not been ascertained. From the map it seems to
have been a long, narrow piece of land between the hills.

Quissichkook, Quassighkook, etc., one of the two places reserved by the
Indians "to plant upon" when they sold Tachkanik, is described in the
deed as a place "lying upon this (_i. e._ the west) side of Roelof
Jansen's Kill" and "near Tachanik," the course running "thence along a
small hill to a valley that leads to a small creek called by the Indians
Quissichkook, and over the creek to a high place to the westward of a
high mountain called by the natives Kachtawagick." In a petition by
Philip Schuyler, 1686, the description reads: "Quassichkook, . . .
lying on the east side of Roelof Jansen's Kill," and the place as a tract
of woodland. The name was probably that of a wooded bluff on the east
side of the creek. It seems to be from _Kussuhkoc_ (Moh.), "high," and
_-ook,_ locative--"At, to or on a high place"--from which the stream and
the plantation was located. (See Quassaick.)

Pattkoke, a place so called, also written _Pot-koke,_ gave name to a
large tract of land patented to Johannes Van Rensselaer in 1649. In
general terms the tract was described as lying "South of Kinder-hook,
[FN-1] east of Claverack, [FN-2] and west of Taghkanick" (Doc. Hist.
N. Y., iii, 617), and also as "Lying to the east of Major Abraham's
patent of Claverack." [FN-3] Specifically, in a caveat filed by John
Van Rensselaer, in 1761, "From the mouth of Major Staats, or Kinderhook
Kill, south along the river to a point opposite the south end of Vastrix
Island, thence easterly twenty-four English miles," etc. (Cal. N. Y.
Land Papers, 307. See also, Wachanekasaik.) It was an immense tract,
covering about eight miles on the Hudson by twenty-four miles deep, and
became known as "The Lower Manor of Rensselaerswyck," but locally as
Claverack, from its frontage on the river-reach so called. The name was
that of a particular place which was well known from which it was
extended to the tract. In "History of Columbia County" this particular
place is claimed to have been the site of an Indian village situate
"about three (Dutch, or nine English) miles inland from Claverack."
(Doc. Hist. N. Y., iv, 84.) The record does not give the name, nor does
it say "village," but place. The local story is, therefore, largely
conjectural. The orthographies of the name are imperfect. Presumably,
they may be read from Mass. _Pautuckoke,_ meaning "Land or country
around the falls of a stream," and the reference to some one of the
several falls on Claverack Creek, or on Eastern Creek, its principal
tributary. Both streams were included in the patent, and both are marked
by falls and rifts, but on the latter there are several "cataracts and
falls of great height and surpassing beauty." "Nothing but a greater
volume of water is required to distinguish them as being among the
grandest in the world," adds the local historian. The special reference
by the writer was to the falls at the manufacturing village known as
Philmont, nine miles east of the Hudson, corresponding with the record
of the "place" where the Indians assembled in 1663-4. _Pautuck_ is met
in many forms. It means, "The falls of a stream." With the suffix, _-oke_
(Mass. _-auke_), "Land, ground, place, unlimited"--"the country around
the falls," or the falls country. (See Potick.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] Kinderhook is an anglicism of Dutch _Kinder-hoek,_ meaning,
 literally, "Children's point, angle or corner." It dates from the
 Carte Figurative of 1614-16, and hence is one of the oldest names on
 Hudson's River. It is supposed to have been applied from a gathering of
 Indian children on a point of land to gaze upon the ship of the early
 navigator. It could not have been a Dutch substitute for an Indian name.
 It is pure Dutch. It was not an inland name. The navigator of 1614-16
 did not explore the country.

 [FN-2] _Claverack_--Dutch, _Claverrak_--literally, "Clover reach--a
 sailing course or reach, so called from three bare or open fields which
 appear on the land, a fancied resemblance to _trefoil_ or three-leaved
 clover," wrote Jasper Dankers and Peter Sluyter in their Journal in
 1679-80. Presumably the places are specifically located in the patent
 to Jan Frans van Heusen, May, 1667, on which the city of Hudson now
 stands, which is described as "A tract of land which takes in three of
 the Clavers on the south." From the locative the reach extended some
 miles north and south and to lands which it bounded. It is still
 preserved as the name of a creek, a town and a village. Of record it
 dates back to De Laet's map of 1625-6, and is obviously much older. It
 is possible that the "three bare places" were fields of white clover,
 as has been claimed by one writer, but there is no record stating that
 fact. Dankers and Sluyter, who wrote only fifty-four years after the
 application of the name, no doubt gave correctly the account of its
 origin as it was related to them by living witnesses. If interpreted as
 were the names of other reaches, the reference would be to actual
 clover fields.

 [FN-3] "Major Abraham" was Major Abraham Staats, who located on a neck
 of land on the north side of "Major Staats' Creek," now Stockport Creek.
 (See Ciskhakainck.) "West of Taghkanick," probably refers to the
 mountains now so known. It means, literally, however, "The woods."
 (See Taghkanick.) There was a heated controversy between the patroon of
 Rensselaerswyck and Governor Stuyvesant in regard to the purchase of
 the tract. It was decided in 1652 in favor of the former, who had, in
 the meantime, granted several small leaseholds. (See Brodhead's Hist.
 N. Y., i.) The first settlement by the patroon was in 1705 at Claverack
 village.


Ciskhekainck and Cicklekawick are forms of the name of a place granted
by patent to Major Abraham Staats, March 25, 1667, and to his son in
1715, described as "Lying north of Claverack [Hudson], on the east side
of the river, along the Great Kill [Kinderhook Creek], to the first fall
of water; then to the fishing place, containing two hundred acres, more
or less, bounded by the river on one side and by the Great Kill on the
other." Major Staats had made previous settlement on the tract under
lease from Van Rensselaer. His house and barn were burned by the Indians
in the Esopus war of 1663. In 1715, he being then dead, his son, Abraham,
petitioned for an additional tract described as "Four hundred acres
adjoining the north line of the neck of land containing two hundred
acres now in his possession, called Ciskhekainck, on the north side of
Claverack, on ye east side of Hudson's River." (Cal. N. Y. Land Papers,
118.) The petition was granted and the two parcels consolidated. The
particular fall referred to is probably that now known as Chittenden's,
on Kinderhook (now Stockport) Creek, a short distance west of Stockport
Station. It may be called a series of falls as the water primarily
descended on shelves or steps. It was noted as remarkable by Dankens
and Sluyter in 1679-80. [FN] Claverack Creek unites with Stockport Creek
just west of the falls. In other connections both streams are called
mill streams. In the Stephen Bayard patent of 1741, the name of the fall
on Stockport Creek is noted as "A certain fall . . . called by the
Indians _Kasesjewack_" The several names are perhaps from _Cochik'uack_
(Moh.), "A wild, dashing" stream. _Cochik'uack,_ by the way, is one of
the most corrupted names of record.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] "We came to a creek, where, near the river, lives a man whom they
 call the Child of Luxury (_t'kinder van walde_). He had a sawmill on
 the creek or waterfall, which is a singular one. The water falls quite
 steep in one body, but it comes down in steps, with a broad rest
 sometimes between them. These steps were sixty feet or more high, and
 were formed out of a single rock."


Kesieway's Kil, described in an Indian deed to Garritt van Suchtenhorst,
1667-8. "A certain piece of land at Claverack between the bouwery of
Jan Roother and Major Abraham Staats, beginning at a fall at the kil
called Kesieway's Kil." (Col. Hist. N. Y., xiii, 51, 57.) The tract seems
to have been on Claverack Creek south of Stockport "Jan Roothers" is
otherwise written, "Jan Hendricksen, alias Jan Roothaer." _Roth_ (German)
means "red," _-aer_ is from German _Haar_ (hair). He was known locally
as "Jan, the red-head." The location of the fall has not been
ascertained. _Kashaway_ Creek is a living form of the name in the town
of Greenport, Columbia County. On the opposite side of the Hudson the
same name apparently, appears in Keesieway, Kesewey, etc., as that of a
"chief or sachem" of the Katskill Indians. (See Keessienwey's Hoeck.)

Pomponick, Columbia County. (N. Y. Land Papers.) _Pompoenik,_ a fort to
be erected at "about the barn of Lawrence van Alen." (Doc. Hist. N. Y.,
ii, 90.) _Pompoen_ is Dutch for pumpkin. The name is also written as
that of an Indian owner--"the land bought by Jan Bruyn of Pompoen."
(Col. Hist. N. Y., xiii, 545.) Pompoeneck is the form of the signature
to deed.

Mawighanuck, Mawighunk, Waweighannuck, Wawighnuck, forms of the name
preserved as that of the Bayard Patent, Columbia County, described as a
place "Lying to the northwest of Kinderhook, about fifteen miles from
Hudson's River, upon Kinderhook River and some branches thereof, part of
which tract is known by the Indian name of Mawighanuck." The particular
"part" noted has not been located, but it seems to have been where one
of the branches of Kinderhook Creek united with that stream. (See
Mawichnauk.)

Mogongh-kamigh, a boundmark of the Bayard Patent (Land Papers, 245), is
located therein, "From a fall on said river called by the Indians
Kasesjewack to a certain place called by the natives Mogongh-kamigh,
then up the southeast branch," etc. The name means, probably, "Place of
a great tree."

Kenaghtiquak, "a small stream" so called, was the name of a boundmark of
the Peter Schuyler Patent, described, "Beginning where three oak trees
are marked, lying upon a small creek, to the south of Pomponick, called
by the Indians Kenaghtiquak, and running thence," etc. It probably
stands for _Enaughtiqua-ûk,_ "The beginning place."

Machachoesk, a place so called in Columbia County, has not been located.
It is described of record as a place "lying on both sides of Kinderhook
Creek," and may have taken its name from an adjacent feature.

Wapemwatsjo, the name of a hill in Columbia County, is a Dutch
orthography of _Wapim-wadchu,_ "Chestnut Hill." The interpretation is
correctly given in the accompanying alternate, "or Karstengeberg"
(Kastanjeberg, Dutch), "Chestnut Hill."

Kaunaumeek, an Indian village sixteen miles east of Albany, in the town
of Nassau, Rensselaer County, was the scene of the labors of Moravian
missionaries, and especially of Missionary Brainerd. It was long known
as Brainerd's Bridge, and is now called Brainerds. The name is Lenape
(German notation) and the equivalent of _Quannamáug,_ Nar., _Gunemeek,_
Len., "Long-fish place," a "Fishing-place for lampreys." The form,
Kaunaumeek, was introduced here by the Moravian missionaries.

Scompamuck is said to have been the name of the locality now covered by
the village of Ghent, Columbia County, perhaps more strictly the head
of the outlet of Copake Lake where an Indian settlement is located on
early maps. The suffix, _-amuck,_ is the equivalent of _-amaug,_ "fishing
place." _Ouschank-amaug,_ from _Ousch-acheu,_ "smooth, slippery," hence
eel or lamprey--"a fishing-place for eels."

Copake, the modern form of the name of a lake in Columbia County, is of
record _Achkookpeek_ (Doc. Hist. N. Y., iii. 628), meaning, literally,
"Snake water," from _Achkook,_ "Snake," and _-péek,_ "Water place," pool
or pond. Hendrick Aupaumut, the Historian of the Stockbridge-Mahicans,
wrote: "_Ukhkokpeck;_ it signifies snake-water, or water where snakes
are abundant." On a map of the boundary line between Massachusetts and
New York an Indian village is located at the outlet of the lake,
presumably that known as Scompamuck.

Kaphack, on Westenhook River, a place described as "Beginning at an
Indian burying-place hard by Kaphack," probably means "A separate
place"--"land not occupied." The tract began at "an Indian
burying-place," and presumably took its name therefrom. _Chépeck,_ "The
dead;" _Chépeack,_ "Place of the dead." (See Shapequa.)

Valatie, the name of a village in Columbia County, is Dutch. It means
"Vale, valley, dale, dell," and not "Little Falls," as rendered in
French's Gazetteer. _Waterval_ is Dutch for "Waterfall." _Vallate,_ Low
Latin for "valley," is the derivative of _Valatie,_ as now written.

Schodac, now covered by the village of Castleton (Schotax, 1677;
Schotack, 1768), was the place of residence of Aepjin, sachem, or "peace
chief," of the Mahicans. [FN-1] It has been translated from _Skootay,_
Old Algonquian (_Sqúta,_ Williams), "fire," and _-ack,_ "place,"
literally, "Fire Place," or place of council. It was extended to Smack's
Island, opposite Albany, which was known to the early Dutch as
"Schotack, or Aepjen's Island." It is probable, however, that the
correct derivative is to be found in _Esquatak,_ or Eskwatak, the record
name of the ridge of land east of Castleton, near which the Mahican fort
or palisaded village was located, from which Castleton takes its name.
_Esquatak_ is pretty certainly an equivalent of _Ashpohtag_ (Mass.),
meaning "A high place." Dropping the initial _A,_ and also the letter
_p_ and the second _h,_ leaves Schotack or Shotag; by pronunciation
Schodac. Eshodac, of which Meshodack [FN-2] is another form, the name of
a high peak in the town of Nassau, Rensselaer County, has become Schodac
by pronunciation. It has been claimed that the landing which Hudson made
and so particularly described in Juet's Journal, was at Schodac. [FN-3]
The Journal relates that the "Master's mate" first "went on land with
an old savage, the governor of the country, who carried him to his house
and made him good cheere." The next day Hudson himself "Sailed to the
shore, in one of their canoe's, with an old man who was chief of a tribe
consisting of forty men and seventeen women," and it is added, "These I
saw there in a house well constructed of oak bark and circular in shape,
so that it had the appearance of being built with an arched roof."
Presumably the house was near the shore of the river and in occupation
during the fishing and planting season. The winter castle was further
inland. The "arched roof" indicates that it was one of the "long" houses
so frequently described, not a cone-like cabin. The "tribe" was the
sachem's family.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] Aepjin's name appears of record first in 1645 as the
 representative of the Westchester County clans in negotiating a treaty
 of peace with the Dutch. In the same capacity he was at Esopus in 1660.
 He could hardly have been the "old man" whom Hudson met in 1609. In one
 entry his name is written "Eskuvius, alias Aepjin (Little Ape)," and in
 another "Called by the Dutch Apeje's (Little Ape's) Island." He may have
 been given that name from his personal appearance, or it may have been
 a substitute for a name which the Dutch had heard spoken. Eliot wrote,
 "_Appu,_ He sits; he rests, remains, abides; _Keu Apean,_ Those that
 sittest," descriptive of the rank of a resident ruler or peace chief,
 one of a class of sachems whose business it was to maintain the
 covenants between his own and other tribes, and negotiate treaties of
 peace on their behalf or for other tribes when called upon. From his
 totemic signature he was of the Wolf tribe of the Mahicans. (See
 Keessienway's Hoeck.)

 [FN-2] The prefixed _M,_ sometimes followed by a short vowel or an
 apostrophe (M'), has no definite or determinate force. (Trumbull.)

 [FN-3] The Journal locates the place at Lat. 42 deg. 18 min. This would
 be about five miles (statute) north of the present city of Hudson.
 "But," wrote Brodhead, "Latitudes were not as easily determined in
 those days as they are now; and a careful computation of the distances
 run by the Half-Moon, as recorded in Juet's day-book, shows that on the
 18th of September, 1609, when the landing occurred, she must have been
 'up six leagues higher' than Hudson, in the neighborhood of Schodac and
 Castleton."


Sickenekas, given as the name of a tract of land on the east side of the
river, "opposite Fort Orange (Albany), above and below," dates from a
deed to Van Rensselaer, 1637, the name of one of the grantors of which
is written Paepsickenekomtas. The name is now written Papskanee and
applied to an island.

Sicajoock, (Wickagjock, Wassenaer), is given as the name of a tract on
the east side of the river extending from Smack's Island to Castle Island
where it joined lands "called Semesseeck," Gesmessecks, etc., which
extended north to Negagonse, "being about twelve miles (Dutch), large
measure." The northern limit seems to have been Unuwat's Castle on the
north side of a stream flowing to the Hudson north of "opposite to
Rensselaer's Kil and waterfall." _Sicajoock_ (Dutch notation), "Black,
or dark colored earth," from _Sûcki_ "Dark colored, inclining to black,"
and _-ock,_ "land." The same name is written Suckiage (_ohke_) in
application to the Hartford meadows, Conn.

Gesmesseeck, a tract of land so called, otherwise entered of record
"Nawanemit's particular land called _Semesseerse,_ lying on the east
bank, opposite Castle Island, off unto Fort Orange." "Item--from
Petanoc, the mill stream, away north to Negagonse." In addition Van
Rensselaer then purchased lands held in common by several owners,
"extending up the river, south and north" from Fort Orange, "unto a
little south of Moeneminnes castle," "being about twelve miles, large
measure." Moeneminne's castle was on Haver Island at Kahoes.
_Semesseerse_ is the form of the name in deed as printed in Col. Hist.
N. Y., vol. i, p. 44, and Gesmesseecks p. 1, v. iv. Kesmesick is another
form and perhaps also Taescameasick. (See Patuckquapaen.) The several
forms of the name illustrate the effort on the part of the early Dutch,
who were then limitedly acquainted with the Indian tongue, to give
orthographies to the names which they heard spoken.

Passapenoc, Pahpapaenpenock and Sapanakock, forms of the name of Beeren
Island, lying opposite Coeymans, is from an edible tuber which was
indigenous on it. [FN] The Dutch name Beeren or Beerin, means, literally,
"She bear," usually called Bear's Island. De Laet wrote "Beeren" in 1640.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] "The Indians frequently designated places by the names of esculent
 or medicinal roots which were there produced. In the Algonquin language
 the generic names for tubers was _pen,_ varying in some dialects to
 _pin, pena, pon,_ or _bun._ This name seems originally to have belonged
 to the common ground nut: _Apias tuberosa._ Abnaki, _pen,_ plural,
 _penak._ Other species were designated by prefixes to this generic, and,
 in the compositions of place names, was employed to denote locality
 (_auk, auki, ock,_ etc.), or by an abundance verb (_kanti-kadi_). Thus
 _p'sai-pen,_ 'wild onions,' with the suffix for place, _ock,_ gave
 _p'sai-pen-auk,_ or as written by the Dutch, _Passapenock,_ the Indian
 name for Beeren Island." (J. H. Trumbull, Mag. of Am. Hist I, 387.)


Patuckquapaen and Tuscumcatick are noted in French's Gazetteer as names
of record in what is now the town of Greenbush, Rensselaer County,
without particular location. The first is in part Algonquian and in part
Dutch. The original was, no doubt, _Patuckquapaug,_ as in Greenwich,
Ct., meaning "Round pond." The Dutch changed _paug_ to _paen_ descriptive
of the land--low land--so we have, as it stands, "Round land," "elevated
hassocks of earth, roots," etc. (See Patuckquapaug.) The second name is
written in several forms--Taescameatuck, Taescameesick, and
Gessmesseecks. _Greenbush_ is an anglicism of _Gran Bosch,_ Dutch,
meaning, literally, "Green forest." The river bank was fringed by a long
stretch of spruce-pine woods. Dutch settlement began here about 1631.
In 1641 a ferry was established at the mouth of the _Tamisquesuck_ or
Beaver Creek, and has since been maintained. About the same year a small
fort, known as Fort Cralo, was constructed by Van Rensselaer's
superintendent.

Poesten Kill, the name of a stream and of a town in Rensselaer County,
is entered in deed to Van Rensselaer in 1630, "Petanac, the mill stream";
in other records, "_Petanac,_ the Molen Kil," and "De Laet's Marlen Kil
and Waterval." _Petanac,_ the Indian name, is an equivalent of
Stockbridge _Patternac,_ which King Ninham, in an affidavit, in 1762,
declared meant "A fall of water, and nothing more." "Molen Kil" (Dutch),
means "mill water." "De Laet's Marlen Kil ende Waterval," locates the
name as that of a well-known waterfall on the stream of eighty feet.
Weise, in his "History of Troy," wrote: "Having erected a saw-mill upon
the kill for sawing posts and timber, which was known thereafter as
Poesten mill, the name became extended to the stream," an explanation
that seems to bear the marks of having been coined. From the character
of the stream the name is probably a corruption of the Dutch _Boosen,_
"An angry stream," because of its rapid descent. The stream reaches the
Hudson on the north line of Troy. (See Gesmessecks.)

Paanpaach is quoted by Brodhead (Hist. N. Y.) as the name of the site of
the city of Troy. It appears in 1659 in application to bottom lands known
as "The Great Meadows," [FN-1] lying under the hills on the east side of
the Hudson. At the date of settlement by Van der Huyden (1720), it is
said there were stripes or patches within the limits of the present city
which were known as "The corn-lands of the Indians," [FN-2] from which
the interpretation in French's Gazetteer, "Fields of corn," which the
name never meant in any language. The name may have had an Indian
antecedent, but as it stands it is Dutch from _Paan-pacht,_ meaning "Low,
soft land," or farm of leased land. The same name appears in _Paan-pack,_
Orange county, which see.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] Weise's Hist. of Troy.

 [FN-2] Woodward's Reminiscences of Troy.


Piskawn, of record as the name of a stream on the north line of Troy,
describes a branch or division of a river. Rale wrote in Abnaki,
"_Peskakōōn,_ branche," of which _Piskawn_ is an equivalent.

Sheepshack and Pogquassick are record names in the vicinity of
Lansingburgh. The first has not been located. It seems to stand for
_Tsheepenak,_ a place where the bulbous roots of the yellow lily were
obtained--modern Abnaki, _Sheep'nak._ _Pogquassick_ appears as the name
of a "piece of woodland on the east side of the river, near an island
commonly called Whale-fishing Island," correctly, Whalefish Island. [FN]
This island is now overflowed by the raising of the water by the State
dam at Lansingburgh. The Indian name does not belong to the woodland;
it locates the tract near the island, in which connection it is probably
an equivalent of _Paugasuck,_ "A place at which a strait widens or opens
out" (Trumbull), or where the narrow passage between the island and the
main land begins to widen. In the same district _Pogsquampacak_ is
written as the name of a small creek flowing into Hoosick River.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] "Whale-fishing Island" is a mistranslation of "Walvish Eiland"
 (Dutch), meaning simply "Whale Island." It is related by Van der Donck
 (1656) that during the great freshet of 1647, a number of whales
 ascended the river, one of which was stranded and killed on this
 island. Hence the name.


Wallumschack, so written in return of survey of patent granted to
Cornelius van Ness and others, in 1738, for lands now in Washington
County; _Walloomscook,_ and other forms; now preserved in Walloomsac, as
the name of a place, a district of country, and a stream flowing from a
pond on the Green Mountains, in the town of Woodford, near Bennington,
Vermont. [FN-1] It has not been specifically located, but apparently
described a place on the adjacent hills where material was obtained for
making paints with which the Indians daubed their bodies. (See Washiack.)
It is from a generic root written in different dialects, _Walla, Wara_
etc., meaning "Fine, handsome, good," etc., from which in the Delaware,
Dr. Brinton derived _Wálám,_ "Painted, from the sense to be fine in
appearance, to dress, which the Indians accomplished by painting their
bodies," and _-'ompsk_ (Natick), with the related meaning of standing or
upright, the combination expressing "Place of the paint rocks." [FN-2]
The ridges of many of the hills as well as of the mountains in the
district are composed of slate, quartz, sandstone and limestone, which
compose the Takonic system. By exposure the slate becomes disintegrated
and forms an ochery clay of several colors, which the Indians used as
paint. The washing away of the rock left the quartz exposed in the form
of sharp points, which were largely used by the Indians for making axes,
lance-heads, arrow points, etc. Some of the ochre beds have been
extensively worked, and plumbago has also been obtained. White Creek,
in the same county, takes that name from its white clay banks.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] Vermont is from _Verd Montagne_ (French), meaning "Green
 Mountains," presumably from their verdure, but actually from the
 appearance of the hills at a distance from the color of the rocks
 reflected in the atmosphere. To the Indian they were Wal'ompskeck,
 "fine, handsome rocks."

 [FN-2] An interpretation of the name from the form Wallumscnaik, in
 Thompson's Hist. Vermont, states that "The termination _'chaik'_
 signifies in the Dutch language, 'scrip.' or 'patent.'" This is
 erroneous. There is no such word as _chaik_ in the Dutch language. The
 _ch_ in the name here stands for _k_ and belongs to _'ompsk._


Tomhenack, Tomhenuk, forms of the name given as that of a small stream
flowing into the Hoosick from the north, [FN] takes that name,
apparently, from an equivalent of _Tomheganic,_ Mass., _Tangamic,_ Del.,
a stone axe or tomahawk, referring to a place where suitable stones were
obtained for making those implements. (Trumbull.) (See Wallumschack.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN] "At a creek called Tomheenecks, beginning at the southerly bounds
 of Hoosick, and so running up southerly, on both sides of said creek,
 over the path which goes to Sanckhaick." (Cal. N. Y. Land Papers, 194;
 petition of John de Peyster, 1730.)


Tyoshoke, now the name of a church at San Coick, Rensselaer County, is
probably from an equivalent of _Toyusk,_ Nar., "a bridge," and _ohke,_
"Place"--a place where the stream was crossed by a log forming a bridge.
It was a well-known fording place for many years, and later became the
site of Buskirk's Bridge.

Sanckhaick, now San Coick, a place in North Hoosick, Rensselaer County,
appears of record in petition of John de Peyster in 1730, and in Indian
deed to Cornelius van Ness and others, in 1732, for a certain tract of
land "near a place called Sanckhaick." The place, as now known, is near
the junction of White Creek and the Wallompskack, where one Van Schaick
made settlement and built a mill at an early date. In 1754 his buildings
were burned by Indian allies of the French. After the war of that period
the mill was rebuilt and became conspicuous in the battle of Bennington,
Aug. 16, 1777. It is claimed that the name is a corruption of Van
Schaick. Col. Baume, commandant of the Hessians in the battle of
Bennington (1777) wrote it Sancoik, which is very nearly Van Schaick.

Schaghticoke, now so written as the name of a town in the northeast
corner of Rensselaer County, and in other connections, is from
_Pishgachtigok_ Mohegan, meaning "Land on the branch or division of a
stream." The locative of the name was at the mouth of Hoosick River on
the Hudson, in Washington County. The earliest record (1685) reads,
"Land at _Schautecógue_" (-ohke). It is a generic name and appears in
several forms and at several places. _Pishgachtigok_ is a form on the
west side of the Housatonic at and near the mouth of Ten-Mile River. It
was the site of an Indian village and the scene of labor by the Moravian
missionaries. In some cases the name is written with locative, "at,"
etc., in others, with substantive meaning land or place, and in others
without suffix. Writes Mr. Gerard, "The name would probably be correctly
written _P'skaghtuk-uk,_" when with locative "at." [FN] Although first
of record in 1685, its application was probably as early as 1675, when
the Pennacooks of Connecticut, fleeing from the disastrous results of
King Phillip's War in which they were allies, found refuge among their
kindred Mahicans, and later were assigned lands at Schaghticoke by
Governor Andros, where they were to serve as allies of the Mohawks. They
seem to have spread widely over the district and to have left their
footprints as far south as the Katskill. It is a tradition that
conferences were held with them on a plain subsequently owned by
Johannes Knickerbocker, some six miles east of the Hudson, and that a
veritable treaty tree was planted there by Governor Andros in 1676-7,
although "planting a tree" was a figurative expression. In later years
the seat of the settlement seems to have been around Schaghticoke hill
and point, where Mashakoes, their sachem, resided. (Annals of Albany,
v, 149.) In the French and Indian war of 1756, the remnant of the tribe
was carried away to Canada by the St. Francis Indians, an organization
of kindred elements in the French service. At one time they are said to
have numbered six hundred warriors. (See Shekomeko.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The root of the name is _Peske_ or _Piske_ (_Paske,_ Zeisb.),
 meaning, primarily, "To split," "To divide forcibly or abruptly."
 (Trumbull.) In Abnaki, _Peskétekwa,_ a "divided tidal or broad river or
 estuary"--_Peskahakan_ (Rale), "branche." In the Delaware, Zeisberger
 wrote _Pasketiwi,_ "The division or branch of a stream." _Pascataway,_
 Md., is an equivalent form. _Pasgatikook,_ Greene County, is from the
 Mohegan form. _Paghataghan_ and _Pachkataken,_ on the east branch of
 the Delaware, and _Paghatagkam_ on the Otterkill, Vt., are equivalent
 forms of _Peskahakan,_ Abnaki. The Hoosick is not only a principal
 branch, but it is divided at its mouth and at times presents the
 appearance of running north in the morning and south at night.
 (Fitch's Surv.)


Quequick and Quequicke are orthographies of the name of a certain fall
on Hoosick River, in Rensselaer County. In petition of Maria van
Rensselaer, in 1684, the lands applied for were described as "Lying on
both sides of a certain creek called Hoosock, beginning at ye bounds of
Schaakook, and so to a fall called Quequick, and thence upward to a
place called Nachacqikquat." (Cal. Land Papers, 27.) The name may stand
for _Cochik'uack_ (Moh.), "Wild, dashing" waters, but I cannot make
anything out of it. The first fall east of Schaakook (Schagticoke)
Patent is now known as Valley Falls, in the town of Pittstown
(Pittstown Station).

Pahhaoke, a local name in Hoosick Valley, is probably an equivalent of
_Pauqna-ohke,_ "Clear land," "open country." It is frequently met in
Connecticut in different forms, as in Pahqui-oke, Paquiag, etc., the
name of Danbury Plains. The form here is said to be from the Stockbridge
dialect, but it is simply an orthography of an English scribe. It has
no relation whatever to the familiar Schaghticoke or Scat'acook.

Panhoosick, so written in Indian deed to Van Rensselaer in 1652, for a
tract of land lying north and east of the present city of Troy,
extending north to nearly opposite Kahoes Falls and east including a
considerable section of Hoosick River, appears in later records as an
apheresis in Hoosick, Hoosack, and Hoosuck, in application to Hoosick
River, Hoosick Mountains, Hoosick Valley, Hoosick Falls, and in "Dutch
Hossuck," an early settlement described in petition of Hendrick van Ness
and others, in 1704, as "land granted to them by Governor Dongan in
1688, known by the Indian name of Hoosack." (Cal. N. Y. Land Papers,
27, 74.) The head of the stream appears to have been the outlet of a
lake now called _Pontoosuc_ from the name of a certain fall on its
outlet called _Pontoosuck,_ "A corruption," wrote Dr. Trumbull, "of
_Powntucksuck,_ 'falls of a brook,' or outlet." "_Powntuck,_ a general
name for all falls," according to Indian testimony quoted by the same
writer. "_Pantuck,_ falls of a stream." (Zeisb.) Several interpretations
of the name have been suggested, of which the most probably correct is
from Massachusetts _Pontoosuck,_ which would readily be converted to
Hoosick or Panhoosick (Pontoosuck). It was applicable to any falls, and
may have had locative at Hoosick Falls as well as on the outlet of
Pontoosuck Lake. Without examination or warrant from the local dialect,
Heckewelder wrote in his Lenape tradition, "The Hairless or Naked Bear":
"_Hoosink,_ which means the basin, or more properly, the kettle." The
Lenape or Delaware _Hōōs,_ "certainly means, in that dialect, 'a pot or
kettle.' Figuratively, it might be applied to a kettle-shaped depression
in land or to a particular valley. _Hoosink_ means 'in' or 'at' the pot
or kettle. _Hoosack_ might be read 'round valley land,' or land with
steep sides." (Brinton.) Of course this does not explain the prefix
_Pan_, nor does it prove that _Hōōs_ was in the local dialect, which,
in 1652, was certainly Mahican or Mohegan. Still, it cannot be said that
the tradition was not familiar to all Algonquians in their mythical
lore.

Heckewelder's tradition, "The Naked or Hairless Bear," has its
culmination at a place "lying east of the Hudson," where the last one
of those fabulous animals was killed. "The story," writes Dr. Brinton,
"was that the bear was immense in size and the most vicious of animals.
Its skin was bare except a tuft of white hair on the back. It attacked
and ate the natives and the only means of escape from it was to take to
the waters. Its sense of smell was remarkably keen, but its sight was
defective. As its heart was very small, it could not be easily killed.
The surest plan was to break its back-bone; but so dangerous was it that
those hunters who went in pursuit of it bade families and friends
farewell, as if they never expected to return. The last one was tracked
to Hoosink, and a number of hunters went there and mounted a rock with
precipitous sides. They then made a noise and attracted the beast's
attention, who rushed to the attack with great fury. As he could not
climb the rock, he tore at it with his teeth, while the hunters above
shot him with arrows and threw upon him great stones, and thus killed
him." [FN]

                          * * * * *

 [FN] "The Lenape and their Legends."


The Hoosick River flows from its head, near Pittsfield, Berkshire
County, in Massachusetts, through the Petersburgh Mountains between
precipitous hills, and carries its name its entire length. Fort
Massachusetts, in the present town of Adams, Mass., was on its borders
and in some records was called Fort Hoosick. It was captured by the
French and their Indians in 1746. The general course of the stream is
north, west, and south to the Hudson in the northwest corner of
Rensselaer County, directly opposite the village of Stillwater,
Saratoga County. There are no less than three falls on its eastern
division, of which the most considerable are Hoosick Falls, where the
stream descends, in rapids and cascades, forty feet in a distance of
twelve rods. Dr. Timothy Dwight, who visited it in the early part of the
19th century, described it as "One of the most beautiful rivers in the
world." "At different points," he wrote, "The mountains extend their
precipitous declivities so as to form the banks of the river. Up these
precipitous summits rise a most elegant succession of forest trees,
chiefly maple, beech and evergreens. There are also large spots and
streaks of evergreens, chiefly hemlock and spruce." Though, with a
single exception, entered in English records by the name of "Hoosick or
Schaahkook's Creek," it was, from the feature which especially attracted
Dr. Dwight's attention, known to the Iroquois as the _Ti-oneenda-howe,_
or "The river at the hemlocks." [FN]

                          * * * * *

 [FN] See Saratoga. _Ti-oneenda-howe_ was applied by the Mohawks to the
 Hoosick, and _Ti-ononda-howe_ to the Batten Kill as positive boundmarks,
 the former from its hemlock-clad hills (_onenda_), and the latter from
 its conical hills (_ononda_). The late Horatio Hale wrote me:
 "_Ti-ononda-howe_ is evidently a compound term involving the word
 _ononda_ (or _ononta_), 'hill or mountain.' _Ti-oneenda-howe,_ in like
 manner, includes the word _onenda_ (or _onenta_), 'hemlock.' There may
 have been certain notable hills or hemlocks which as landmarks gave
 names to the streams or located them. The final syllables _howe,_ are
 uncertain." (See Di-ononda-howe.)


Cossayuna, said to be from the Mohawk dialect and to signify "Lake of
the pines," is quoted as the name of a lake in the town of Argyle,
Washington County. The translation is correct, substantially, but the
name is Algonquian--a corruption of _Coossa,_ "Pine," [FN] and _Gummee,_
"Lake," or standing water. The terms are from the Ojibway dialect, and
were probably introduced by Dr. Schoolcraft.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] It is of record that "the borders of Hudson's River above Albany,
 and the Mohawk River at Schenectady," were known, in 1710, as "the best
 places for pines of all sorts, both for numbers and largeness of trees."
 (Doc. Hist. N. Y., iii, 656.) Mass. _Kowas-'ktugh,_ "pine tree." The
 name is met in many orthographies.


Anaquassacook, the name of a patent in Washington County, and also of a
village and of a stream of water, was, primarily, the name of a
boundmark. The locative has not been ascertained. _Anakausuk-ook,_ "At
the end of a course," or as far the brook.

Podunk, a brook so called in the town of Fort Ann, Washington County,
is met in several other places. (See Potunk, L. I.) Its meaning has not
been ascertained.

Quatackquaohe, entered on Pownal's map as the name of a tract of land on
the south side of a stream, has explanation in the accompanying entry,
"Waterquechey, or Quatackquaohe." Waterquechey (English) means "Moist
boggy ground," indicating that _Quatackquaohe_ is an equivalent of
_Petuckquiohke,_ Mass., "Round-land place," _i. e._ elevated hassocks
of earth, roots, etc. The explanation by Gov. Pownal may supply a key
to the translation of other names now interpreted indefinitely.

Di-ononda-howe, a name now assigned to the falls on the Batten Kill
below Galeville, Washington County, is Iroquoian and of original
application to the stream itself as written in the Schuyler Patent. It
is a compound descriptive of the locality of the creek, the reference
being to the conical hills on the south side of the stream near the
Hudson, on one of which was erected old Fort Saratoga. The sense is,
"Where a hill interposes," between the object spoken of and the speaker.
The late Superintendent of the Bureau of Ethnology, Prof. J. W. Powell,
wrote me: "From the best expert information in this office, it may be
said that the phonetic value of the final two syllables _howe_ is far
from definite; but assuming that they are equivalent to _huwi_ (with the
European vowel values), the word-sentence Di-ononda-howe means, 'There
it has interposed (a) mountain,' Written in the Bureau alphabet, the
word-sentence would be spelled Ty-ononde-huwi. It is descriptive of the
situation of the creek, but not of the creek itself, and is applicable
to any mountain or high hill which appears between a speaker and some
other object." (See Hoosick.)

Caniade-rioit is given as the name of Lake George, and "The tail of the
lake" as the definition, "on account of its connection with Lake
Champlain." (Spofford's Gazetteer.) Father Jogues, who gave to the lake
the name "Lac de Saint Sacrament" (Lake of the Holy Sacrament), in 1645,
wrote the Mohawk name, _Andiato-rocte_ (French notation), with the
definition, "There where the lake shuts itself in," the reference being
to the north end of the lake at the outlet. This definition is not far
from a correct reading of the suffix _octe_ (_okte,_ Bruyas), meaning
"end," or, in this connection, "Where the lake ends." _Caniade,_ a form
of _Kaniatare,_ is an Iroquoian generic, meaning "lake." The lake never
had a specific name. _Horicon,_ which some writers have endeavored to
attach to it, does not belong to it. It is not Iroquoian, does not mean
"north," nor does it mean "lake" or "silver water," [FN] The present
name was conferred by Sir William Johnson, in honor of King George III,
of England.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] _Horikans_ was written by De Laet, in 1624, as the name of an
 Indian tribe living at the head waters of the Connecticut. On an ancient
 map _Horicans_ is written in Lat. 41, east of the Narragansetts on the
 coast of New England. In the same latitude _Moricans_ is written west
 of the Connecticut, and _Horikans_ on the upper Connecticut in latitude
 42. _Morhicans_ is the form on Carte Figurative of 1614-16, and
 _Mahicans_ by the Dutch on the Hudson. The several forms indicate that
 the tribe was the _Moricans_ or _Mourigans_ of the French, the _Maikans_
 or _Mahikans_ of the Dutch and the _Mohegans_ of the English. It is
 certain that that tribe held the headwaters of the Connecticut as well
 as of the Hudson. The novelist, Cooper, gave life to De Laet's
 orthography in his "Last of the Mohegans."


Ticonderoga, familiar as the name of the historic fortress at Lake
George, was written by Sir William Johnson, in 1756, _Tionderogue_ and
_Ticonderoro,_ and in grant of lands in 1760, "near the fort at
_Ticonderoga._" Gov. Golden wrote _Ticontarogen,_ and an Iroquoian sachem
is credited with _Decariaderoga._ Interpretations are almost as numerous
as orthographies. The most generally quoted is from Spofford's Gazetteer:
"_Ticonderoga,_ from _Tsindrosie_, or _Cheonderoga,_ signifying
'brawling water,' and the French name, _Carillon,_ signifying 'a chime
of bells,' were both suggested by the rapids upon the outlet of Lake
George." The French name may have been so suggested, but neither
_Tsindrosie_ or _Cheonderoga_ means "brawling water." The latter is
probably an orthography of _Teonderoga._ Ticonderoga as now written, is
from _Te_ or _Ti,_ "dual," two; _Kaniatare,_ "lake," and _-ogen,_
"intervallum, divisionem" (Bruyas), the combination meaning, literally,
"Between two lakes." Horatio Hale wrote me of one of the forms:
"_Dekariaderage,_ in modern orthography, _Tekaniataroken,_ from which
Ticonderoga, means, simply, 'Between two lakes.' It is derived from
_Tioken,_ 'between,' and _Kaniatara,_ 'lake.' Its composition illustrates
a peculiar idiom of the Iroquoian language, _Tioken_ when combined with
a noun, is split in two, so to speak, and the noun inserted. Thus in
combining _Tioken_ with _Ononte,_ 'mountain,' we have _Ti-ononte-oken,_
'Between two mountains,' which was the name of one of the Mohawk
castles--sometimes written Theonondiogo. In like manner, _Kaniatare,_
'lake,' thus compounded, yields _Te-kaniatare-oken,_ 'Between two lakes.'
In the Huron dialect _Kaniatare_ is contracted to _Yontare_ or _Ontare,_
from which, with _io_ or _iyo,_ 'great,' we get _Ontario_ (pronounced
Ontareeyo), 'Great lake' which, combined with _Tioken,_ becomes
_Ti-onteroken,_ which would seem to be the original of Colden's
_Tieronderoga._"

There is rarely an expression of humor in the use of Indian place-names,
but we seem to have it in connection with Dekariaderoga, one of the forms
of Ticonderoga quoted above, which is of record as having been applied
to Joseph Chew, Secretary of Indian Affairs, at a conference with chiefs
of the Six Nations. (Col. Hist. N. Y., viii, 501.) Said the sachem who
addressed Secretary Chew, "We call you Dekariaderoga, the junction of
two lakes of different qualities of water," presumably expressing
thereby, in keeping with the entertainment usually served on such
occasions, that the Secretary was in a condition between "water and
firewater." Neither "junction" or "quality of water" are expressed in
the composition, however; but perhaps are related meanings.

Caniade-riguarunte is given by Governor Pownal as the Iroquoian name of
Lake Champlain, with the legend, "The Lake that is the gate of the
country." (Doc. Hist. N. Y., iii, 1190.) The lake was the route taken
by the Algonquians of Canada in their forays against the Mohawks. Later,
it became a link in the great highway of travel and commerce between
New York and Quebec, via. Hudson's River, in which connection it was
literally "The gate of the country." The legend is not an interpretation
of the Iroquoian name, however. In the French missionary spelling the
generic word for "lake" is _Kaniatare_ of which _Caniaderi_ is an
English notation. The suffix _-guarûnte,_ in connection with
_Caniaderi,_ gives to the combination the meaning, "A lake that is part
of another lake." (J. B. N. Hewitt.) The suffix is readily confused with
_Karonta,_ or _-garonta_ (Mohawk), meaning "tree," from which, probably,
Fennimore Cooper's "Lake of the Woods." "Lake of the Iroquois," entered
on early maps, does not mean that when Champlain visited it in 1609 it
was owned by the Iroquois, but that it was the route from Quebec to the
Iroquois country.




                        On Long Island.


                          * * * * *



Matouwackey, Sewanhackey and Paumanackey, in varying orthographies,
are names of record for Long Island, derived from _Meitauawack_
(_Metaûhock,_ Nar.), the name of the shell-fish from which the Indians
made the shell-money in use among them, [FN-1] called by English _Peag,_
from _Wau-paaeek_ [FN-2] (Moh.), "white," and by the Dutch _Sewan_ or
_Zeewan,_ [FN-3] from _Sewaûn_ (Moh.), _Sueki_ (Nar.), "black." This
money was both white and black (so called), the latter the most rare
and valuable. It was in use by the Europeans as a medium of trade with
the Indians, as well as among themselves, by the Indians especially for
the manufacture of their historic peace, tribute, treaty and war belts,
called _Paumaunak_ (_Pau-pau-me-numwe,_ Mass.), "an offering." [FN-4]
_Meitouowack,_ the material, _Waupoaeek_ and _Sewaûn,_ the colors;
_Paumanack,_ the use, "an offering." The suffix of either term (_hock,
hagki, hackee_) is generic for shell--correctly, "An ear-shaped shell."
(Trumbull.) Substantially, by the corruption of the suffix to _hacki_
(Del.), "land" or place, the several terms, as applied to the island,
have the meaning, "The shell island," or "Place of shells." De Laet
wrote, in 1624: "At the entrance of this bay are situated several
islands, or broken land, on which a nation of savages have their abode,
who are called Matouwacks; they obtain a livelihood by fishing within
the bay, whence the most easterly point of the land received the name
of Fisher's Hook and also Cape de Bay." Van der Donck entered on his
map, "t' Lange Eyland, alias, Matouwacks." "Situate on the island called
by the Indians Sewanhacky." (Deed of 1636.) "Called in ye Indian tongue
Suanhackey." (Deed of 1639.) Than these entries there is no claim that
the island ever had a specific name, and that those quoted were from
shells and their uses is clear. Generically the island was probably
known to the Minsi and neighboring tribes as _Menatey,_ "The island,"
as stated by Dr. Trumbull; smaller islands being known as _Menatan,_ from
which _Manathan_ and _Manhatan._ The occupants of the island were a
distinct group of Algonquian stock, speaking on the east a dialect more
or less of the Massachusetts type, and on the west that known as
Monsey-Lenape, both types, however, being largely controlled by the
Dutch and the English orthographies in which local notings appear. They
were almost constantly at war with the Pequods and Narragansetts, but
there is no evidence that they were ever conquered, and much less that
they were conquered by the Iroquois, to whom they paid tribute for
protection in later years, as they had to the Pequods and to the
English; nor is there evidence that their intercourse with the river
tribes immediately around them was other than friendly.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] "_Meteauhock,_ the Periwinkle of which they made their wampum."
 (Williams.) "Perhaps derived from _Mehtauog,_ 'Ear-shaped,' with the
 generic suffix _hock_ (_hogki, hackee_), 'shell.'" (Trumbull.)

 [FN-2] _Wompompeag_ is another form quoted as Mohegan, from which
 _Wompum._ "_Wompom,_ which signifies white." (Roger Williams.)

 [FN-3] _Seahwhoog,_ "they are scattered." (Eliot.) "From this word the
 Dutch traders gave the name of _Sewan,_ or _Zeawand,_ to all shell
 money; just as the English called all _Peag,_ or strung beads, by the
 name of the white, _Wampum._" (Trumbull.)

 [FN-4] An interpretation of _Paumanack_ as indicating a people
 especially under tribute, is erroneous. The belts which they made were
 in universal use among the nations as an offering, the white belts
 denoting good, as peace, friendship, etc., the black, the reverse. The
 ruling sachem, or peace-chief, was the keeper and interpreter of the
 belts of his nation, and his place sometimes took its name from that
 fact. That several of the sachems did sign their names, or that their
 names were signed by some one for them, "Sachem of Pammananuck," proves
 nothing in regard to the application of that name to the island.


Wompenanit is of record as the name of "the utmost end eastward" of the
Montauk Peninsula. The description reads: "From the utmost end of the
neck eastward, called Wompenanit, to our utmost bound westward, called
Napeake." (Deed of July 11, 1661.) In other papers Wompenonot and
Wompenomon, corrupted orthographies. The meaning is "The utmost end
eastward," _i. e._ from the east side of Napeake to the extreme end.
The derivatives are Nar. _Wompan_ (from _Wompi,_ white, bright), "It is
full daylight, bright day," hence the Orient, the East, the place of
light, and _-anit,_ "To be more than," extending beyond the ordinary
limit. The same word appears in _Wompanánd,_ "The Eastern God"
(Williams), the deity of light. From _Wompi,_ also _Wapan_ in
_Wapanachkik,_ "Those of the eastern region," now written _Abanaqui_ and
_Abnaki,_ and confined to the remnant of a tribe in Maine. (See
Wahamanesing,) Dr. Trumbull wrote: "_Anit,_ the subjunctive participle
of a verb which signifies 'To be more than,' 'to surpass'"; with
impersonal _M_ prefixed, _Manit,_ as in _Manitou,_ a name given by the
Indians, writes Lahontan, "To all that passes their understanding";
hence interpreted by Europeans, "God." It has no such meaning in
_Wompenanit,_ but defined a limit that was "more than," or the extreme
limits of the island. No doubt, however, the Indians saw, as do visitors
of to-day, at the utmost end of the Montauk Peninsula, in its breast of
rock against which the ocean-waves dash with fearful force; its
glittering sun-light and in its general features, a _Wompanánd,_ or
Eastern God, that which was "more than ordinary, wonderful, surpassing,"
but those features are not referred to in _Wompenanit,_ except, perhaps,
as represented by the glittering sun-light, the material emblem of the
mystery of light--"where day-light appears."

Montauk, now so written--in early orthographies _Meantacut,_
_Meantacquit,_ etc.--was not the name of the peninsula to which it is
now applied, but was extended to it by modern Europeans from a specific
place. The extreme end was called by the Indians _Wompenanit,_ and the
point, _Nâïag,_ "Corner, point or angle," from which Adriaen Block
wrote, in 1614, _Nahicans,_ "People around the point," a later Dutch
navigator adding (War Dep. Map) the topographical description, _Nartong,_
"A barren, ghastly tongue." The name has had several interpretations by
Algonquian students, but without entire satisfaction even to themselves.
Indeed, it may be said with truth, "It has been too much translated" to
invite further study with the hope of a better result. The orthography
usually quoted for interpretation appears first in South Hampton Records
in an Indian deed of 1640, "_Manatacut,_ his X mark," the grantor being
given the name of the place which he represented, as appears from the
same records (1662), "Wyandanch, Meantacut sachem," or sachem of
Meantac. The Indian deed reads: "The neck of land commonly known by the
name of Meantacquit, . . . Unto the east side of Napeak, next unto
Meantacut high lands." In other words the high lands bounded the place
called Meantacqu, the suffix _-it_ or _-ut_ meaning "at" that place.
The precise place referred to was then and is now a marsh on which is a
growth of shrub pines, and cedars. Obviously, therefore, _Meantac_ or
_Meantacqu,_ is an equivalent of Mass. _Manantac,_ "Spruce swamp," and
of Del. _Menántac,_ "Spruce, cedar or pine swamp." (Zeisb.) The Abn.
word _Mannaⁿdakôô,_ "cedar" (Mass. _-uɧtugh;_ Nar. _áwtuck_), seems
to establish conclusively that _-ántak_ was the general generic suffix
for all kinds of coniferous trees, and with the prefix _Men, Man, Me,_
etc., described small or dwarf coniferous trees usually found growing
in swamps, and from which swamps took the name. [FN] There is nothing
in the name or in its corruptions that means "point," "high lands,"
"place of observation," "fort," "fence," or "confluence"; it simply
describes dwarf coniferous trees and the place which they marked. The
swamp still exists, and the dwarf trees also at the specific east bound
of the lands conveyed. (See Napeak.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The Indians had specific names for different kinds of trees. The
 generic general word was _Me'hittuk_ or _M'hittugk,_ Del., _M'tugh,_
 Mass., which, as a suffix, was reduced to _-ittuk, -utugh, -tagh,
 -tack, -tacque,_ etc., frequently _ak,_ which is the radical. Howden
 writes in Cree: "_Atik_ is the termination for the names of trees,
 articles made of wood," etc. _Mash-antack-uk,_ Moh., was translated by
 Dr. Trumbull from _Mish-untugh-et,_ Mass., "Place of much wood."
 _Mannaⁿdakōō_ is quoted as the Abn. word for "cedar;" _Mishquáwtuck,_
 Nar., "Red cedar." _Menántachk,_ "Swamp" (Len. Eng. Dic.), is explained
 by Rev. Anthony, "with trees meeting above." _Menautac,_ "Spruce,
 cedar or pine swamp" (Zeisb.), from the kind of trees growing in the
 swamp, but obviously _antac_ never described a swamp, or trees growing
 in swamps, without the prefix _Men, Man, Me,_ etc. _Keht-antak_ means
 a particularly large tree which probably served as a boundmark. It may
 be a question if the initial _a_ in _antak_ was not nasal, as in Abn.,
 but there can be none in regard to the meaning of the suffix.


Napeak, East Hampton deed of 1648, generally written _Napeaka, Neppeage_
and _Napeague,_ and applied by Mather (Geological Survey) to a beach
and a marsh, and in local records to the neck connecting Montauk Point
with the main island, means "Water land," or "Land overflowed by water."
The beach extends some five miles on the southeast coast of Long Island.
The marsh spreads inland from the beach nearly across the neck where it
meets Napeak Harbor on the north coast. It is supposed to have been, in
prehistoric times, a water-course which separated the island from the
point. Near the eastern limit are patches of stunted pines and cedars,
and on its east side at the end of what are called the "Nominick hills,"
where was obviously located the boundmark of the East Hampton deed,
"Stunted pines and cedars are a feature," wrote Dr. Tooker in answer to
inquiry. (See Montauk.)

Quawnotiwock, is quoted in French's Gazetteer as the name of Great Pond;
authority not cited. Prime (Hist. L. I.) wrote: "The Indian name of the
pond is unknown." The pond is two miles long. It is situate where the
Montauk Peninsula attains its greatest width, and is the largest body
of fresh water on the island. It would be correctly described by _Quinne_
or _Quawnopaug,_ "Long pond," but certainly not by _Quawnotiwock,_ the
animate plural suffix _-wock,_ showing that it belonged to the
people--"People living on the Long River." [FN] (See Quantuck and
Connecticut.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The suffix _-og, -ock, -uck,_ is, in the dialect here, a plural
 sign. Williams wrote _-oock, -uock, -wock,_ and Zeisberger wrote _-ak,
 -wak._ _Quinneh-tuk-wock,_ "People living on the Long River"--"a
 particular name amongst themselves." _Kutch-innû-wock,_ "Middle-aged
 men;" _Miss-innû-wock,_ "The many." _Lénno,_ "Man"; _Lénno-wak,_ "Men."
 (Zeisberger.) _Kuwe,_ "Pine"; _Cuweuch-ak,_ "pine wood, pine logs."
 Strictly, an animate plural. In the Chippeway dialect, Schoolcraft
 gives eight forms of the animate and eight forms of 'the inanimate
 plural. The Indians regarded many things as animates that Europeans do
 not.


Assup, given as the name of a neck of land--"A tree marked X hard by the
northward side of a cove of meadow"--means "A cove." It is an equivalent
of _Aucûp_ (Williams), "A little cove or creek." "_Aspatuck_ river" is
also of record here, and probably takes that name from a hill or height
in proximity. "Aspatuck hill," New Millford, Conn.

Shinnecock, now preserved as the name of an Indian village in the town
of Southampton, on the east side of Shinnec'ock Bay, for many years in
occupation by a remnant of the so called Shinnec'ock Indians who had
taken on the habits and customs of European life, appears in its present
form in Plymouth Records in 1637, in treaty association with the
Massachusetts government. They claimed to be the "true owners of the
eastern end of Long Island," but acknowledged the primacy of Wyandanch,
sachem of the Montauks, who had been elected by other sachems as chief
sachem or the "sachem of sachem" of the many clans. The name is probably
from the root _Shin,_ or _Schind,_ "Spruce-pine" (Zeisb.); _Schindikeu,_
"Spruce-pine forest"; _Shinak-ing,_ "At the land of spruce-pines."
(Brinton); _Schindak-ock,_ "Land or place of spruce-pines." There was
an extended spruce-pine forest on that part of the island, a considerable
portion of which remains in the district south of Peconic River in the
town of Southampton. The present form of the name is pronounced
Shinnec'ock.

Mochgonnekonck is written, in 1643, as the name of a place unlocated
except in a general way. The record reads: "Whiteneymen, sachem of
Mochgonnekonck, situate on Long Island." (Col. Hist. N. Y., xiv, 60.)
Whiteneymen, whose name is written Mayawetinnemin in treaty of 1645, and
"Meantinnemen, alias Tapousagh, chief of Marsepinck and Rechawyck," in
1660 (Col. Hist. N. Y., xiii, 58), was son of Mechowodt, sachem of
Marsepingh, and probably succeeded his father as sachem of that clan.
(Col. Hist. N. Y., xiv, 540.) His last possession was Cow Neck, in the
present town of North Hampton, which was given to him by his father; it
may have been the Mochgonnekonk of 1643. De Vries met him in conference
in 1645, and notes him as a speaker of force, and as having only one
eye. Brodhead wrote of him: "Kieft, therefore, by the advice of his
council determined to engage some of the friendly Indians in the interest
of the Dutch, and Whiteneymen, the sachem of Mochgonnecocks, on Long
Island, was dispatched, with several of his warriors, 'to beat and
destroy the hostile tribes.' The sachem's diplomacy, however, was better
than his violence. In a few days he returned to Fort Amsterdam bearing
friendly messages from the sachems along the Sound and Near Rockaway,"
and a formal treaty of peace soon followed. He was elected "sachem of
sachems" by the sachems of the western clans on the island, about the
time the jurisdiction of the island was divided between the English at
New Haven and the Dutch at Manhattan, the former taking the eastern
clans under Wyandanch, and as such appears in the treaties with the
Dutch in 1645, '56--His record name is variously written--Tapousagh,
Tackapousha, etc. It is frequently met in Long Island Records.
_Mochgonneckonck_ the name of his sachemdom in 1643, has not been
identified further than that he was the owner of Cow Neck, now called
Manhasset (Manhas'et), Queens County, the largest neck or point of land
on the coast.

Quaunontowunk, Quannotowonk, Konkhonganik and Konghonganoc, are forms
of two distinct names applied respectively to the north and south ends
of Fort Pond, as per deed for the tract known as "the Hither Woods
purchase," which reads: "The name of the pond is Quaunontowunk on the
north and Konkhonganik on the south." Dr. Tooker translated the former
from _Quaneuntéow-unk,_ (Eliot), "Where the fence is," the reference
being to a certain fence of lopped trees which existed on the north end
of the pond, [FN-1] and the latter from _Kuhkunhunganash_ (Eliot),
"bounds," "At the boundary place." The present name of the pond is from
two Indian forts, one known as the Old Fort, on the west, and one known
as the New Fort, on the east, the latter remaining in 1661, the former
destroyed, the deed reading, "Where the Old Fort stood." Wyandanch, [F-2]
"the sachem of Manatacut,"--later called "The great sachem of
Montauk"--had his residence in the Old Fort. He was the first ruler of
the Montauks known to the Dutch, his name appearing in 1637. (See
Montauk.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] The deed reads: "The north fence from the pond to the sea, shall
 be kept by the town; the south fence, to the sea, by the Indians."
 Presumably the fences were there when the land was sold.

 [FN-2] Wyandach, or Wyandance, is said to have been the brother of
 Paggatacut, sachem of Manhas'set or Shelter Island, the chief sachem
 of fifteen sachemdoms. On the death of the latter, in 1651, Wyandanch
 became, by election, the successor of his brother and held the office
 until his death by poison in 1659.


Mastic, preserved as the name of a river and also as that of a village
in Brookhaven, is of uncertain meaning. _Wampmissic,_ the name of
another village, is supposed to have been the name of a swamp--Mass.
_Wompaskit,_ "At or in the swamp, or marsh."

Poosepatuck, a place so called and now known as the Indian Reservation,
back of Forge River at Mastick, probably means "On the other side," or
"Beyond the river," from _Awossi,_ "Over, over there, on the other side,
beyond," and _-tuck,_ "Tidal river."

Speonk, the name of a village in Southampton near East Bay, on an
inlet of the ocean, to which flows through the village a small brook,
has lost some of its letters. _Mas-sepe-onk_ would describe a place on
a broad tidal river or estuary. In the same vicinity _Setuck_ is of
record as the name of a place. It may also be from Mas-sepe-tuck. (See
Southampton Records.) While the English settlers on eastern Long Island
were careful to preserve Indian names, they were very careless in
orthographies.

Poquatuck is quoted by Thompson (Hist. L. I.) as the name of Oyster
Pond in the town of Southold. It is now claimed as the name of Orient,
a village, peninsula or neck of land and harbor on the east side of the
pond. Probably from _Pohqu'unantak,_ "Cleared of trees," a marshy neck
which had been cleared or was naturally open. The same name is met in
Brookhaven.

Cataconoche, given as the name of the Great Neck bounding Smithtown on
the east, has been translated by Dr. Tooker from _Kehte-komuk,_ "Greatest
field," later known as the Old Man's Field, or Old Field.

Yaphank, Yamphank, etc., a village in Brookhaven, is from Niantic
dialect in which _Y_ is used for an initial letter where other dialects
employ _L, N_ or _R._ Putting the lost vowel _e_ back in the word, we
have _Yapehánek,_ in Lenape _Rapehánek,_ "Where the stream ebbs and
flows." The name is written Yampkanke in Indian deed. (Gerard.) The name
is now applied to a small tributary of the Connecticut, but no doubt
belongs to a place on the Connecticut where the current is affected by
the tide. (See Connecticut.)

Monowautuck is quoted as the Indian name of Mount Sinai, a village in
the town of Brookhaven, a rough and stony district on what is known as
Old Man's Bay, a small estuary surrounded by a salt-marsh meadow. The
name seems to be an equivalent of _Nunnawanguck,_ "At the dry land." Old
Man's Bay takes that name from the Great Neck called Cataconche,
otherwise known as the Old Man's Meadow, and as the Old Field. "The two
neckes or hoeces (hooks) of meadow that lieth next beyond the Old Man's
Meadow"--"with all ye privileges and appurtenances whatsoever, unto the
Old Field." Presumably _Man's_ was originally _Manse_ (English),
pronounced _Mans,_ "the dwelling of a landholder with the land attached,"
and called _Old_ because it was the first land or field purchased. (See
Cataconche.)

Connecticut, now so written and of record _Connetquoit,_ etc, is not the
name of the stream to which it is applied, but of the land on both sides
of it. It is an equivalent of _Quinnituckquet,_ "Long-river land," as in
Connecticut. (Trumbull.) _Quinnituk,_ "Long river"; with locative _-et_
or _-it,_ "Land or place on the long-river." The stream is the outlet
of Ronkonkoma Lake, and flows south to Fire-place Bay, where the name is
of primary record. There were two streams to which it was applied; one
is a small stream in Islip, and the other, the largest stream on the
island, as described above. In old deeds it is called East Connecticutt.
Fire-place is now retained as the name of a village on Bellport Bay, and
its ancient locative on the Connecticut is now called South Haven. [FN]

                          * * * * *

 [FN] There were two places bearing the name of Fire-place, one on the
 north side of the island on Gardiner's Bay, and one on the south side.
 The latter is referred to here.


Minasseroke, quoted as the name of Little Neck, town of Brookhaven,
probably means "Small-stone land" or place--_Min-assin-ohke, r_ and _n_
exchanged.

Patchogue, Pochough, Pachough, the name of a village in the town of
Brookhaven, Suffolk County, on Patchough Bay, is probably met in
Pochaug, Conn., which Dr. Trumbull read from _Pohshâog,_ where two
streams form one river, signifying, "Where they divide in two." The name
was early extended to a clan known as the Pochoughs, later Patchoogues,
who seem to have been a family of the Onchechaugs, a name probably the
equivalent of _Ongkoué_ (Moh.), "beyond," with _-ogue_ (ohke), "land
beyond," _i. e._ beyond the bay. [FN] (See Moriches.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Otherwise written _Unquetauge_--"land lying at Unquetauge, on the
 south side of Long Island, in the county of Suffolk." Literally, "Land
 beyond;" "on the further side of; in the same direction as, and further
 on or away than." _Onckeway,_ a place beyond Stamford, on Connecticut
 river. (Col. Hist. N. Y.) "_Ongkoué,_ beyond Pequannuc river."
 (Trumbull.)


Cumsequogue is given in will of William Tangier Smith as the name of
what is now known as Carman's River, flowing to Bellport Bay. It is
probably a pronunciation of _Accomb-suck-ohke,_ "Land or place at the
outlet beyond." The record name of Bellport is Occombomeck, Accobamuck,
etc., meaning, "Fishing-place beyond," which, as the deeds show, was a
fishing-place at a freshwater pond, now dried up. The name is readily
confused with Aquebogue.

Moriches, a neck of land "lying at Unquetague, on the south side of
Long Island, being two necks called by ye names of _Mariges_ and
_Namanock_" (Cal. N. Y. Land Papers, 45), is now in the town of
Brookhaven. Namanock seems, from the locative, to be a corruption of
_Nam'e-ohke,_ "Fish-place"--Namanock or Namecock. (Trumbull.) [FN]
_Moriches,_ or _Mariges,_ is a corruption of Dutch _Maritches_ (Morichi,
Mariche), from _Moriche Palmita_ (Latin), meaning, in popular use, any
plant thought to resemble a palm. _Mauritia_ a species of Mauriticæ,
or South-American palm, so called in honor of Prince Maurice of Nassau.
(See Palmagat.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN] _Namaus,_ generic, "a fish"--_Namohs,_ Eliot; _Namés,_ Abn.,
 _Namaes,_ Heck.; _Namees,_ Zeisb.; with suffix _-aki, -ohke,_ etc.,
 "fish-land," place or country. _Améessok,_ Zeisb.; _Anmesooak,_ Abn.,
 _Aumsûog,_ Mass., "small fishes." As a generic suffix, _-ama'ug,_ Mass.,
 _-ama'uk,_ Del., "fishing-place." "_Ama'ug_ is only used at the end of
 a compound name, where it is equivalent to _Nameaug,_ at the beginning."
 (Trumbull.) The final syllable, _-ug, -uk,_ etc., is an animate plural.
 On Long Island, _-Ama'ug_ is frequently met in _-amuck;_ in other
 places, _-amwack, -amwook, -ameock,_ etc.


Kitchaminchoke, given as the name of a boundmark, said to be Moriches
Island, is interpreted by Dr. Tooker, "The beginning place." The
description (1630) reads, "Beginning at" a place called, _i. e._ an
object or feature which would definitely locate a boundmark--apparently
an equivalent of _Schiechi-kiminschi-aki,_ Lenape, "Place of a soft-maple
tree." The territory conveyed extended to _Enaughquamuck,_ which Dr.
Tooker rendered correctly, "As far as the fishing-place."

Niamug and Niamuck are forms of the name of what is now known as Canoe
Place, on the south side of Long Island, near Southampton. "_Niamug,_ the
place where the Indians haul over their canoes out of the North Bay to
the South Bay." (Deed of 1640.) Dr. Trumbull translated from _Nôe-amuck,_
"Between the fishing places." Local tradition affirms that centuries
ago the Indians made a canal here for the purpose of passing their
canoes from Mecox Bay to Paconic Bay. Mongotucksee, the hero of the
story, was a chieftain who reigned over the Montauks in the days of their
pride and power. The tradition has no other merit than the fact that
Niamug was a place at which canoes were hauled across the island.

Sicktew-hacky (deed of 1638); _Sicketewackey_ (Van der Donck, 1656):
"All the lands from Rockaway eastward to Sicktew-hackey, or Fire Island
Bay"; "On the south coast of Long Island, at a place called Sicktewacky,
or Secontague, near Fire Island Inlet" (Brodhead); Seaquetauke, 1659;
Setauck Neck, the south bound of St. George's Manor, now Manorville; of
record as the name of an Indian clan and village near Fire Island Inlet,
with the Marsapinks and Nyacks for neighbors; now preserved in several
forms of which Setauket probably locates a place near Secontague.
_Sicketeuhacky,_ writes Mr. Gerard, "is the Lenape equivalent of
_Secatogue,_ meaning 'Burned-over land.' Whether the mainland or Fire
Island was the 'Burned-over land,' history does not tell us." Lands were
burned over by the Indians to destroy the bushes and coarse grasses, and
probably some field of this character was referred to by the Indian
grantors, from which the name was extended to the Neck and to Fire
Island, although it is said that fires were kindled on the island for
the guidance of fishermen.

Saghtekoos--"called by the native Indians Saghtekoos; by the Christians
Appletree Neck"--the name of the Thompson estate in Islip--probably
means, "Where the stream branches or divides," or "At the branch,"
referring to Thompson's brook. The suffix _-oos_ evidently stands for
"small." (See Sohaghticoke.) "Apple-tree Neck" is not in the composition,
but may indicate that the Indian owners had planted apple trees there.

Amagansett, the Indian name of what is now East Hampton, was translated
by Dr. Trumbull, "At or near the fishing place"; root _Am,_ "to take by
the mouth"; _Amau,_ "he fishes"; Abn., _Amaⁿgaⁿ,_ "_ou péche lá,_" "he
fishes there," (Rasles); _s,_ diminutive or derogatory; _ett,_ "Near or
about," that is, the tract was near a small or inferior fishing-place,
which is precisely what the composition describes.

Peconic, now so written and applied to Peconic Bay and Peconic River, but
primarily to a place "at the head of the river," or as otherwise
described, "Land from ye head of ye bay or Peaconnack, was Shinnec'ock
Indians' Land" (Col. Hist. N. Y., xiv, 600), is not the equivalent of
_Peqan'nuc,_ "a name common to all cleared land," as translated by Dr.
Trumbull, but the name given as that of a small creek tributary to
Peconic River, in which connection it is of record _Pehick-konuk,_ which,
writes Mr. Gerard, "plainly stands for _K'pe-hickonuk,_ or more properly
_Kĕpehikanik,_ 'At the barrier,' or weir. _Kĕpehikan_ from _Kepehike,_
'he closes up,' or obstructs, _i. e._ 'dams.'" The bounds of the
Shinnec'ock Indians extended east to this stream; or, as the record
reads, "To a river where they did use to catch the fish commonly called
alewives, the name of which creek was Pehickkonuk, or Peconic." (Town
Records.)

Agwam, Agawam, is quoted by French as the name of Southampton, L. I. Dr.
Trumbull wrote: "Acawan, Agawan or Auquan, a name given to several
localities in New England Where there are low meadows--a low meadow or
marsh." Presumably from _Agwu,_ "Underneath, below." Another authority
writes: "_Agawam_ from _Magawamuk,_ A great fishing place." (See
Machawameck.)

Sunquams is given by French as the Indian name of Mellville in
Southampton, L. I., with the interpretation, "Sweet Hollow." The
interpretation is mere guess-work.

Massaback, a hill so called in Huntington, Suffolk County--in English
"Half hill," and in survey (1703) "Half-hollow hill"--probably does not
belong to the hill which the English described as "half-hollow," but to
a stream in proximity to it--_Massabeset,_ "At a (relatively) great
brook." (Trumbull.)

Mattituck, the name of a village in Southold, near the west end of the
town, was primarily written as that of a tract of land including the
present town of Riverhead, from which it was extended to a large pond
between Peconic Bay and the Sound. Presumably the same name is met in
Mattatuck, Ct., written Matetacoke, 1637, Matitacoocke, 1673, which was
translated by Dr. Trumbull from Eliot's _Mat-uh'tugh-auke,_ "A place
without wood," or badly wooded. (See Titicus.)

Cutchogue, Plymouth Records, 1637; "_Curchaug,_ or Fort Neck;"
_Corch'aki,_ deed of 1648; now Cutchogue, a village in Southold, in the
vicinity of which was an Indian fort, the remains of which and of an
Indian burial ground are objects of interest, is probably a corruption
of _Maskutchoung,_ which see. Dr. Tooker translated from _Kehti-auke,_
"The principal place," the appositeness of which is not strikingly
apparent. The clan bearing the name was party to the treaty with the
Massachusetts people in 1637, and to the sale of the East Hampton lands.
Their earliest sachem was Momoweta, who acknowledged the primacy of
Wyandanch.

Tuckahoe, a level tract of land near Southampton village, takes that
name from one or the other of the larger "round" roots (Mass.
_P'tuckweōō_), possibly the Golden Club, or Floating Artmi, a root
described "as much of the bigness and taste of potatoes." (Trumbull.)
[FN] The same name is met in Westchester County.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Dr. Brinton writes: "They also roasted and ate the acrid cormus of
 the Indian turnip, in Delaware _taw-ho, taw-hin_ or _tuck-ah,_ and
 collected the seeds of the Golden Club, common in the pools along the
 creeks and rivers. Its native name was _taw-kee._" ("The Lenape and
 their Legends.") The name of another place on Long Island, written
 _Hogonock,_ is probably an equivalent of Delaware _Hóbbenac_ (Zeisb.),
 "Potatoes," or "Ground-nuts"; _Hóbbenis,_ "Turnips." (See Passapenoc.)


Sagabonock has left only the remnant of its name to Sag-pond and
Sag-harbor. It is from _Sagabonak,_ "Ground nuts, or Indian potatoes."
(Trumbull.) The name is of record as that of a boundmark "two miles from
the east side of a Great Pond," and is described as a "pond or swamp" to
which the name of the tuber was extended from its product.

Ketchepunak, quoted as the name of Westhampton, describes "The greatest
ground-nut place," or "The greatest ground-nuts." (See Kestaubniuk.)

Wequaganuck is given as the name of that part of Sag-harbor within the
town of East Hampton. It is an equivalent of _Wequai-adn-auke,_ "Place
at the end of the hill," or "extending to the hill." (Trumbull.) The hill
is now known as Turkey Hill, on the north side of which the settlement
of Sag-harbor was commenced.

Namke, from _Namaa,_ "fish," and _ke,_ "place"--fish-place--was the name
of a place on the creek near Riverhead. (O'Gallaghan.) More exactly,
_Nameauke,_ probably.

Hoppogues, in Smithtown, Suffolk County, is pretty certainly from
_Wingau-hoppague,_ meaning, literally, "Standing water of good and
pleasant taste." The name was that of a spring and pond. In a deed of
1703, the explanation is, "Or ye pleasant springs." Supposed to have been
the springs which make the headwaters of Nissequogue river at the
locality now bearing the name of Hauppauge, a hamlet.

Massapeage--_Massapeag,_ 1636; _Massapeague, Rassapeage_--a place-name
from which extended to an Indian clan whose principal seat is said to
have been on Fort Neck, in the town of Oyster Bay, was translated by Dr.
Trumbull from _Massa,_ "great"; _pe,_ the radical of water, and _auke,_
"land," or "Land on the great cove." Thompson (Hist. L. I.) assigns the
name to "a swamp on the south side of Oyster Bay," now South Oyster Bay,
and it is so applied in Indian deeds. There were two Indian forts or
palisaded towns on the Neck. Of one the name is not given; it was the
smallest of the two; its site is said to be now submerged by water. The
second, or largest, is called in Dutch records _Matsepe,_ "Great river."
It is described as having been situated on the most southerly point of
land adjoining the salt meadows. Both forts were attacked by Dutch forces
under Capt. Pieter Cock and Capt. John Underhill, in the summer of 1644
(a local record says August) and totally destroyed with heavy loss to
the Indians. (Doc. Hist. N. Y., iv, 15, 16.) In Prime's and other local
histories the date is given as 1653, on the authority of "Hubbard's
Indian Wars," and Capt. Underhill is assigned to the command in the
attack on the largest fort. The official Dutch record, however, assigns
that honor to Capt. Pieter Cock. The year was surely 1644, (Brodhead's
Hist. N. Y., i, 91.) The prefix _Mass,_ appears in many forms--Massa,
Marsa, Marsha, Rassa, Mesa, Missi, Mas, Mes, etc., and also _Mat,_ an
equivalent of _Mas._

Massepe, quoted in Dutch records as the name of the Indian fort on Fort
Neck, where it seems to have been the name of Stony Brook, is also met
in Jamaica Records (Col. Hist. N. Y., xiv, 505) as the name of a creek
forming a mowing boundary or division line extending from a certain place
"Eastward to ye great creek called Massepe." The name is fully explained
by the description, "Great creek." _Massepe-auke_ means "Great creek
(or river) land," or place; _Mas-sepe-ink,_ "At or on the great creek."
The Indian residents came to be known as the Marsepincks.

Maskutchoung, a neck of land so called forming one of the boundaries of
Hempstead Patent as entered in confirmatory deed of "Takapousha, sachem
of Marsapeage," and "Wantagh, the Montauke sachem," July 4th, 1657:
"Beginning at a marked tree standing at the east side of the Great Plain,
and from thence running on a due south line, and at the South Sea by a
marked tree in a neck called Maskutchoimg, and thence upon the same line
to the South Sea." (Col. Hist. N. Y., xiv, 38, 416.) "By a marked tree
in a neck called Maskachoung." (Thompson's Hist. L. I., 9, 15, 47.) It
is probably an equivalent of _Mask-ek-oug,_ "A grassy swamp or marsh."
A local interpretation reads: "Grass-drowned brook," a small stream
flowing through the long marsh-grass, to which the name was extended.

Maskahnong, so written by Dr. O'Callaghan in his translation of the
treaty between the Western Long Island clans, in 1656, is noted in
"North and South Hempstead Records," p. 60, "A neck of land called
Maskahnong." It disappears after 1656, but probably reappears as
Maskachoung in 1658, and later as Maskutchoung, which see.

Merick, the name of a village in Hempstead, Queens County, is said to
have been the site of an Indian village called _Merick-oke._ It has been
interpreted as an apheresis of a form of _Namanock,_ written _Namerick,_
"Fish place." (See Moriches.) Curiously enough, Merrick was a proper name
for man among the ancient Britons, and the corruption would seem to have
been introduced here by the early English settlers from resemblance to
the Indian name in sound. The place is on the south side of the island.
The Indian clan was known as the Merickokes.

Quantuck, a bay so called in Southampton, is of record, in 1659,
_Quaquanantuck,_ and applied to a meadow or neck of land. "The meadow
called Quaquunantuck"--"the neck of land called Quaquanantuck"--"all the
meadows lying west of the river, commonly called or known by the name of
Quantuck." One of the boundmarks is described as "a stumpy marsh,"
indicating that it had been a marsh from which the trees had been
removed. The name seems to correspond with this. It is probably from
_Pohqu'un-antack,_ "cleared or open marsh" or meadow. (See Montauk.)

Quogue, the name of a village near Quantuck Bay, and located, in Hist.
Suffolk County, as "the first point east of Rockaway where access can
be had to the ocean without crossing the bay," has been read as a
contraction of Quaquaunantuck, but seems to be from _Pŏque-ogue,_ "Clear,
open space," an equivalent of _Pŏque-auke,_ Mass.

Rechqua-akie, De Vries; _Reckkouwhacky,_ deed of 1639; now applied to a
neck on the south side of Long Island and preserved in Rockaway, was
interpreted by the late Dr. E. B. O'Callaghan: "_Reck_ 'sand'; _qua,_
'flat'; _akie,_ 'land'--the long, narrow sand-bar now known as Rockaway
Beach," but is more correctly rendered with dialectic exchange of R and
L, _Lekau._ (Rekau), "sand or gravel," _hacki,_ "land" or place. (Zeisb.)
"Flats" is inferred. A considerable division of the Long Island Indians
was located in the vicinity, or, as described by De Vries, who visited
them in 1643, "near the sea-shore." He found thirty wigwams and three
hundred Indians, who were known in the treaty of 1645, as Marechkawicks,
and in the treaty of 1656 as Rockaways. [FN]

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The names in the treaty of 1645, as written by Dr. O'Callaghan,
 are "Marechkawicks, Nayecks, and their neighbors"; in the treaty of
 1656, "Rockaway and Canorise." The latter name appears to have been
 introduced after 1645 in exchange for Marechkawick. (See Canarise.)
 _Rechqua_ is met on the Hudson in Reckgawaw-onck, the Haverstraw flats.
 It is not an apheresis of Marechkawick, nor from the same root.


Jamaica, now applied to a town, a village and a bay, was primarily given
to the latter by the English colonists. "Near unto ye beaver pond called
Jamaica," and "the beaver path," are of record, the latter presumably
correct. The name is a pronunciation of _Tomaque,_ or _K'tamaque,_ Del.,
_Amique,_ Moh., "beaver." "_Amique,_ when aspirated, is written
_Jamaique,_ hence Yameco, Jamico, and modern Jamaica." (O'Callaghan.)
The bay has no claim to the name as a beaver resort, but beavers were
abundant in the stream flowing into it.

Kestateuw, "the westernmost," _Castuteeuw,_ "the middlemost," and
_Casteteuw,_ "the eastermost," names of "three flats on the island
Sewanhackey, between the bay of North river and the East river." The
tracts came to be known as Flatlands; "the easternmost," as "the Bay,"
or Amesfort.

Sacut, now known as Success Pond, lying on a high ridge in Flushing, is
a corruption of _Sakûwit_ (_Sáquik_), "Mouth of a river" (Zeisb.), or
"where the water flows out." The pond has an outlet, but it rarely
overflows. It is a very deep and a very clear body of water.

Canarsie, now so written and applied to a hamlet in the town of
Flatlands, Kings County, is of record _Canari See, Canarisse, Canarise,
Canorise_ (treaty of 1655), _Kanarisingh_ (Dutch), and in other forms,
as the name of a place or feature from which it was extended to an
Indian sub-tribe or family occupying the southwest coast of Long Island,
and to their village, primarily called _Keshaechquereren_ (1636). On the
Lower Potomac and Chesapeake Bay the name is written _Canais, Conoys,
Ganawese,_ etc. (Heck, xlii), and applied to a sub-tribe of Naniticokes
residing there who were known as "The tide-water people," or "Sea-shore
settlers." On Delaware Bay it is written _Canaresse_ (1651, not 1656 as
stated by Dr. Tooker), and applied to a specific place, described in
exact terms: "To the mouth of the bay or river called Bomptjes Hoeck, in
the Indian language _Canaresse._" (Col. Hist. N. Y. xii, 166.) "Bomptjes
Hoeck" is Dutch and in that language describes a low island, neck or
point of land covered with small trees, lying at the mouth of a bay or
stream, and is met in several connections. The point or place described
on the Delaware (now Bombay Hook) was the end of the island, known on
old maps as "Deep Point," and the "Hook" was the bend in the currents
around it forming the marshy inlet-bay on the southwest connecting with
a marshy channel or stream, and the latter on the north with a small
stream by which the island was constituted. Considered from the
standpoint of an Algonquian generic term, the rule is undisputed that
the name must have described a feature which existed in common at the
time of its application, on the Delaware and on Long Island, and it only
remains to determine what that feature was. Obviously the name itself
solves the problem. In whatever form it is met it is the East Indian
_Canarese_ (English _Can'a-resé_) pure and simple, and obviously employed
as a substitute for the Algonquian term written _Ganawese,_ etc., of the
same meaning. In the "History of New Sweden" (Proc. N. Y. Hist. Soc,
2d Ser. v. i.), the locative on the Delaware is described: "From
Christina Creek to _Canarose_ or _Bambo_ Hook." In "Century Dictionary"
_Bambo_ is explained: "From the native East Indian name, Malay and Java
_bambu_, Canarese _banbu_ or _bonwu._" Dr. Brinton translated _Ganawese_
from _Guneu_ (Del.), "Long," but did not add that the suffix--_wese,_
or as Roger Williams wrote it, _quese,_ means "Little, small," the
combination describing Bambo grasses, _i. e._ "long, small" grasses,
which, in some cases reach the growth of trees, but on Long Island and
on the Delaware only from long marsh grasses to reeds, as primarily in
and around Jamaica Bay and Gowanus Bay, on Reed Island, etc. True,
Ganawese would describe anything that was "long, small," but obviously
here the objective product. Canarese, Canarose, Kanarische, Ganawese,
represent the same sound-"in (East) Indian, Canaresse," as represented
in the first Long Island form, Canari See, now Jamaica Bay.

Keschaechquereren, (1636), _Keschaechquerem_ (1637), the name of the
settlement that preceded Canarese, disappears of record with the advent
of the English on Barren Island and at Gravesend soon after 1637-8. It
seems to describe a "Great bush-net fishing-place," from
K'sch-achquonican, "Great bush-net." (Zeisb.), the last word from
_Achewen,_ "Thicket"; from which also _t' Vlact Bosch_ (Dutch), modern
Flatbush. The Indian village was between the Stroome (tidewater) Kil and
the Vresch Kil, near Jamaica.

Narrioch was given by the chief who confirmed the title to it in 1643,
as the name of what is now known as Coney Island, and _Mannahaning_ as
that of Gravesend Neck. (Thompson's Hist. L. I., ii, 175.) The Dutch
called the former Conynen, and the latter Conyne Hoeck--"_t' Conijen
Conine._" Jasper Dankers wrote in 1679: "On the south (of Staten Island)
is the great bay, which is enclosed by Najaq, t' Conijen Island,
Neversink," etc. Conijen (modern Dutch, Konijn), signifies "Rabbit"--Cony,
Coney--inferentially "Small"--literally, "Rabbit, or Coney Island," in
Dutch. The Indian names have been transposed, apparently. _Mannahaning_
means "At the island," and _Narrioch_ is the equivalent of _Nayaug,_ "A
point or comer," as in Nyack. The latter was the Dutch "Conyne Hoeck."
Judge Benson claimed Conyn as "A Dutch surname, from which came the name
of Coney, or Conyn's Island," but if so, the surname was from "Rabbit"
surely.

Gowanus--_Gowanus,_ 1639; _Gowanes,_ 1641; _Gouwanes,_ 1672--the name of
one of the boundmarks of a tract of land in Brooklyn, is probably from
_Koua_ (_Kowaw,_ Williams; _Curve,_ Zeisb.), "Pine"; _Kowawese_
(Williams), "A young pine," or small pine. It was that of a place on a
small stream, the description in the Indian deed of 1639, reading:
"Stretching southward to a certain kil or little low bushes." The land
conveyed is described as being "overflowed at every tide, and covered
with salt-meadow grass." The latter gave to it its value. The claim that
the name was that of an Indian owner is not well sustained. The evidence
of the Dutch description of the bay as Boompje Hoek, meaning, literally,
"Small tree cape, corner or angle," and the fact that small pines did
abound there, seems to establish _Koua_ as the derivative of the name.

Marechkawick, treaty of 1645--_Mereckawack,_ Breeden Raddt, 1649;
_Mareckawick_ and _Marechkawieck,_ Rapelie deed, 1630; _Marechkourick,_
O'Callaghan; _Marechkawick,_ Brodhead--forms of the name primarily given
as that of Wallabout Bay, [FN] "The bought or bend of Marechkawick"--"in
the bend of Marechkawick," 1630--has been translated by Dr. Tooker from
_Men'achk_ (_Manachk,_ Zeisb.), "fence, fort," and _-wik,_ "house"
(Zeisb.), the reference being to a fenced or palisaded cabin presumably
occupied by a sachem and his family of the clan known in Dutch history
as the Mareckawicks. The existence of a palisaded cabin in the vicinity
of "the bought or bend" is possible, but the name has the appearance of
an orthography (Dutch) of _Mereca,_ the South-American name of a teal,
(Mereca Americani) the Widgeon, and _-wick_ (_Wijk,_ M. L. G.), "Bay,
cove, inlet, retreat," etc., literally "Widgeon Bay." "Situate on the
bay of Merechkawick," is entered on map of 1646 in Stiles' "History of
Brooklyn." _Merica_ was the Mayan name of the American Continent. It is
spread all over South America and was applied to many objects as in the
Latinized Mereca Americani. The early Dutch navigators were no doubt
familiar with it in application to the Widgeon, a species of wild duck,
and employed it in connection with the word _-wijk._ Until between 1645
and 1656, the Indians residing on the west end of Long Island were known
as Marechkawicks; after 1656 they were called Canorise. (See Canar'sie.)
Brooklyn is from Dutch _Breukelen,_ the name of a village about eighteen
miles from Amsterdam. It means "Broken land." (Breuk.) On Van der Donck's
map the name is written correctly. A record description reads: "There is
much broken land here."

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Wallabout Bay takes its first name from Dutch _Waal,_ "gulf,
 abyss," etc., and _Bocht,_ "bend," It was spoken of colloquially by the
 early Dutch as "The bay of the foreigners," referring to the Walloons
 who had settled on the north side of the bay in 1625. The first white
 child, Sarah Rapelie, born in New Netherland, now the State of New York,
 was born here June 17th, 1625.


Manette, so written of record--"near Mannato hill," about thirty miles
from Brooklyn and midway between the north and south sides of the
island--has been interpreted from its equivalent, _Manitou,_ "Hill of
the Great Spirit," but means strictly, "That which surpasses, or is more
than ordinary." (Trumbull.) It was a word in common use by the Indians
in application to everything that was more than ordinary or that they
could not understand. In this instance it seems to have been applied to
the water of a spring or well on the rising ground which they regarded
as of surpassing excellence; from the spring transferred to the hill.
The tradition is that some ages ago the Indians residing in the vicinity
of the hill were suffering for water. They prayed to the Great Spirit
for relief, and were directed to shoot an arrow in the air and where it
fell to dig and they would find water. They did so and dug the well now
on the rising ground, the water of which was of surpassing excellence,
or Manitou. The story was probably invented to account for the name. It
is harmless fiction.

Rennaquakonck, Rinnegahonck, a landmark so called in the boundaries of
a tract on Wallabout Bay, described in deed as "A certain swamp where
the water runs over the stones," and, in a subsequent deed, "At the
sweet marsh" (Hist. of Brooklyn), is an orthography of _Winnegackonck,_
meaning "At the sweet place," so called from some plant which was found
there, or to distinguish the marsh as fresh or sweet, not a salt marsh.
The exchange of R and W may be again noted.

Comac, the name of a village in Suffolk County, is an apheresis of
_Winne-comac,_ as appears of record. The combination expresses, "Good
enclosed place," from _Winne,_ "Good, fine, sweet, beautiful, pleasant,"
etc., and _-komuck,_ "Place enclosed," or having definite boundaries,
limited in size.

Nyack, the name of the site of Fort Hamilton, is a generic verbal from
_Nâï,_ "A point or corner." (_Nâïag,_ Mass., _Néïak,_ Len.) The
orthographies vary--Naywayack, Narrack, Nanak, Narrag, Najack, Niuck,
Narrioch, etc. With the suffix _-ak,_ the name means "Land or place at
the point." (See Nyack-on-the-Hudson.) Dankers and Sluyter wrote in
their Journal (1679-80): "We went part of the way through the woods and
fine, new-made land, and so along the shore to the west end of the
island called Najack. . . . Continuing onward from there, we came to the
plantation of the Najack Indians, which was planted with maize, or
Turkish Wheat." The Nayacks removed to Staten Island after the sale of
their lands at New Utrecht. (See Narrioch.)

Nissequague, now so written, the name of a hamlet in Smithtown, and of
record as the name of a river and of a neck of land still so known, is
of primary record _Nisinckqueg-hackey_ (Dutch notation), as the name of
a place to which the Matinnecock clan removed after the war of 1643.
(Col. Hist. N. Y., xiv, 60.) The English scribes wrote Nesequake (1650),
Nesaquake (1665), Nessequack (1686), Wissiquack (1704), (Cal. N. Y.
Land Papers), and other forms. The Indian deed of 1650 (Smithtown
Records) recites the sale by "Nasseoonseke, sachem of Nesequake," of a
tract "Beginning at a river called and commonly known by the name of
Nesaquake River, and from that river eastward to a river called
Memanusack." "Nesaquauke River" is the entry in patent to Richard Smith,
1665. The stream has its source in a number of springs in the southern
part of Smithtown, the flow of which forms a considerable river.
(Thompson.) The theory that "The tribe and river derived their name from
Nesequake, an Indian sagamore, the father of Nassaconset" (Hist. Suf.
Co.), is not well sustained. The suffix _-set,_ cannot be applied to an
animate object; it is a locative meaning "Less than at." In addition to
this objection, Nassaconset is otherwise written Nessaquauke-ecoompt-set,
showing that the name belonged to a place that was "On the other side"
of Nessaquauke. Neesaquauke stands for _Neese-saqû-auke,_ from _Nisse,_
"two," _Sauk,_ "Outlet," and _-auke,_ "Land" or place, and describes a
place at "the second outlet," or as the text reads, "At a river called
and commonly known by the name of Nesaquake River." The sagamore may
have been given the name from the place, but the place could not have
taken the name from the sagamore. The estuary, now known as Nissequage
Harbor into which the stream flows, extends far inland and forms the
west boundary of Nissequage Neck.

Marsepinck, a stream so called in Queens County, from which extended to
the land which was sold, in 1639, by "Mechowout, chief sachem of
Marossepinck, Sint-Sink and dependencies," and also extended to an
Indian clan known as Marsepings, is no doubt an orthography of _Massepe_
and _-ing,_ locative. It means "At, to or on the great river." _Mas_ is
an abbreviation of _Massa, Missi,_ etc., "great," and _Sepe,_ means
"river." It was probably used comparatively-the largest compared with
some other stream. (See Massepe.)

Unsheamuck, otherwise written Unthemamuk, given as the name of Fresh
Pond, on the boundary line between Huntington and Smithtown, means
"Eel-fishing place." (Tooker.)

Suggamuck, the name of what is now known as Birch Creek, in Southampton,
means "Bass fishing-place." (Tooker.)

Rapahamuck, a neck or point of land so called, is from _Appé-amuck,_
"Trap fishing-place." (Tooker.) The name is assigned to the mouth of
Birch Creek. (See Suggamuck.)

Memanusack and _Memanusuk,_ given as the name of Stony Brook, probably
has its locative "At the head of the middle branch of Stony Brook,"
Which formed the boundmark noted in the Indian deed. The same name is
probably met in _Mayomansuk,_ from _Mawé,_ meaning "To bring together,"
"To meet"; and _-suck,_ "Outlet," _i. e._ of a pond, marsh or river.
The brook was "stony" no doubt, but that description is English.

Cussqunsuck is noted as the name of Stony Brook referred to in
Memanusack. The stream is probably the outlet of the waters of a swamp.
In his will Richard Smith wrote: "I give to my daughter Sarah, 130 acres
of land at the _two_ swamps called _Cutts-cunsuck._" The first word
seems to stand for _Ksúcqon,_ "Heavy" (Zeisb.), by metonymie, "Stone,"
_-es,_ "Small," and _-uck,_ locative, "Place of small stone." _Ksúcqon_
may be employed as an adjectival prefix. Eliot wrote, "_Qussukquemin,_
Stone fruit," the cherry.

Mespaechtes, deed to Governor Keift, 1638, from which Mespath (Brodhead),
Mespat (Riker), Mashpeth and Mashpett (Co. Hist. N. Y., xiv, 602), now
Maspeth, a village in Newtown, Queens County, and met in application to
Newtown Creek (Col. Hist. N. Y., xiii, 25), has been translated by Dr.
Tooker, "From _Mech-pe-is-it,_  Bad-water place," and by Wm. R. Gerard,
"From _Massapichtit,_ verbal describing scattered settlements, as though
the Indians who sold the lands had said, 'We include the lands of those
living here and there.'" [FN] Flint, in his "Early History of Long
Island," wrote: "Mespat Kills, now Maspeth, from the Indian _Matsepe,_
written by the Dutch, _Maespaatches Kiletje_"--long known as "Dutch
Kills." In patent of 1642, for lands described as lying "on the east
side of Mespatches Kil," the boundary is stated: "Beginning at the kil
and the tree standing upon the point towards the small kil." Obviously
there were two streams here, the largest called Mespatches, which seems
to be, as Flint states, a Dutch rendering of _Matsepe-es,_ from _Mas_
(Del. _Mech_), a comparative term--"great," as distinguished from
"small," the largest of two, and _Sepees (Sepoûs, Sepuus),_ "a brook."
_Sepe, Sipo, Sipu,_ etc., is generally applied to a long stream. The
west branch of Mespatt Kill has the record name of _Quandoequareus._
Flint wrote: "The _Canapauke,_ or Dutch Kills, sluggishly winding its
way through the meadows of bronzed grasses." _Canapauke_ stands for
_Quana-pe-auke,_ "Long water-land," or "Land on the long water." The
stream is a tidal current receiving several small streams. (See
Massepe.) Mespatches seems to belong to the stream noted in patent of
1642.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] "_Missiachpitschik,_ those who are or live scattered." (Zeisberger's
 Onond. Dic.)


Sint-Sink, of record as the name of Schout's Bay, [FN] also, "Formerly
called Cow Neck, and by the Indians Sint-Sink," was the name of a place
now known as Manhasset. (Col. Hist. N. Y.) It means "Place of small
stones," as in Sint-Sink, modern Sing-Sing, on the Hudson.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Known also as "Martin Garretson's bay." Garretson was Schout
 (Sheriff), hence "Schout's bay." The neck of land "called by the Indians
 Sint-Sink," was fenced for the pasturage of cows, and became known as
 "Cow Neck," hence "Cow bay" and "Cow harbor," now Manhasset bay. (See
 Matinnec'ock and Mochgonneck-onck.)


Manhasset, correctly _Manhanset,_ means, "Near the Island," or something
less than at the island. The locative was long known as "Head of Cow
Neck."

Matinnecock is noted in a survey for Lewis Morris, in 1685: "A tract of
land lying upon the north side of Long Island, within the township of
Oyster Bay, in Queens County, and known by the name of Matinicock," and
in another survey: "A certain small neck of land at a place called
Mattinicock." Extended also to an island and to an Indian clan. Cornelius
van Tienhoven wrote in 1650: "Martin Garritson's Bay, or Martinnehouck,
[FN-1] is much deeper and wider than Oyster Bay; it runs westward in and
divides into three rivers, two of which are navigable. The smallest
stream runs up in front of the Indian village called Martinnehouck,
where they have their plantations. The tribe is not strong, and consists
of about thirty families. In and about this bay were formerly great
numbers of Indian plantations which now lie waste. On the rivers are
numerous valleys of sweet and salt meadows." The name has, with probable
correctness, been interpreted from _Metanak-ok_ (Lenape, _Metanak-onk_;
Abn., _Metanak-ook_), meaning, "Along the edge of the island," or, as
Van Tienhoven wrote, "About this bay." The same name appears on the
Delaware as that of what is now known as Burlington Island. [FN-2] It is
corrupted in New Jersey to Tinnicum, and is preserved on Long Island as
the name of a village in the town of Oyster Bay.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] A corruption from "Martin."

 [FN-2] Mattinacunk, Matinneconke, Matinnekonck--"having been formerly
 known by the name of Kipp's Island, and by ye Indian name of
 Koo-menakanok-onck." (Col. Hist. N. Y.) _Koo-menakanok-onck_ was the
 largest of two islands in the Delaware and was particularly identified
 by the Indian name, which means "Pine-tree-islands place." The name by
 which the Island came to be known was transferred to it apparently.


Hog's Island, so called by the early settlers, now known as Center
Island, has the record description: "A piece of land on Martin
Garretson's Bay, in the Indian tongue called Matinnecong, alias Hog's
Neck, or Hog's Island, being an island at high tide." (Col. Hist. N. Y.,
xiv, 435.) "Matinneckock, a neck on the Sound east of Muchito Cove."
(See Muchito.) The island is connected with the main land by a neck or
beach which was overflowed at high tide.

Caumsett is recorded as the name of "The neck of land which makes the
west side of Cow Harbor and the east side of Oyster Bay" (Ind. Deed of
1654), known later as Horse Neck and Loyd's Neck. Apparently a
corruption of _Ketumpset,_ "Near the great standing rock." The reference
may have been to what was known as Bluff Point.

Muchito, the name of what is now Glen Cove, near Hempstead Harbor, is
otherwise written Muschedo, Mosquito and Muscota. It was primarily
written as the name of Muchito Neck. It means "Meadow"--_Moskehtu_
(Eliot), "grass;" _Muskuta,_ "A grassy plain or meadow." (See Muscota.)

Katawomoke, "or, as called by the English, Huntington," is written in
the Indian deed of 1653, _Ketauomoke_; in deed of 1646, _Ketauomocke,_
and assigned to a neck of land "Bounded upon the west side with a river
commonly called by the Indians Nachaquetuck, and on the east by a river
called Opcutkontycke," the latter now known as Northfield-Harbor Brook.
The name is preserved in several orthographies. In deed to Lion Gardiner
(1638), _Ar-hata-amunt_; in deed to Richard Smith (1664), _Catawaunuck_
and _Catawamuck_, and in another entry "Cattawamnuck land," _i. e._ land
about Catawamuck; in Huntington Records, _Ketewomoke_; in Cal. N. Y.
Land Papers, p. 60: "To the eastward of the town of Huntington and to
the westward of Nesaquack, commonly called by the Indians _Katawamake_
and in English by the name of Crope Meadow;" in another entry, "Crab
Meadow," by which last name the particular tract was known for many
years. "Crope" and "Crab" are English equivalents for a species of
grass called "finger-grass or wire-grass," and were obviously employed
by the English to describe the kind of grass that distinguished the
meadow--certainly not as an equivalent of the Indian name, which was
clearly that of a place at or near the head of Huntington Harbor, from
which it was extended to the lands as a general locative. The several
forms of the name may probably be correctly read from _Kehti,_ or its
equivalent. _Kehchi_, "Chief, principal, greatest," and _-amaug,_
"Fishing-place" (_-amuck,_ L. I.), literally "The greatest
fishing-place." The orthography of 1638 is especially corrupt, and
_Ketawamuck_, apparently the most nearly correct, the rule holding good
in this, as in other cases, that the very early forms are especially
imperfect.

Nachaquatuck, the western boundary stream of Eaton's Neck, quoted as the
name of Cold Spring, is translated by Dr. Tooker from _Wa'nashque-tuck_,
"The ending creek, because it was the end or boundary of the tract."
"Called by the Indians Nackaquatok, and by the English Cold Spring."
(Huntington Patent, 1666.) _Wanashque,_ "The tip or extremity of
anything."

Opcutkontycke, now assigned to a brook entering Northfield Harbor, and
primarily given as the name of a boundary stream (see Katawamake), seems
to be a corruption of _Ogkomé_ (Acoom-), "On the other side," and
_-tuck,_ "A tidal stream or estuary." It was a place on the other side
of the estuary.

Aupauquack, the name of a creek in West Hampton, is entered, in 1665,
_Aupaucock_ and described as a boundary stream between the Shinnecock
and the Unchechauge lands, "Either nation may cutt flags for their use
on either side of the river without molestation." Also given as the name
of a "Lily Pond" in East Hampton. Written Appauquauk and Appoquague, and
now Paucuck. The name describes a place "Where flags grow," and nothing
else. [FN] (See Apoquague.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Rev. Thomas James, in a deposition made Oct. 18, 1667, said that
 two old Indian women informed him they "gathered flags for mats within
 that tract." (East Hampton Town Records, 156.)


Wading River, now so called, was also called "The Iron or Red Creek,"
"Red Creek" and "Wading Place," and by the Indians _Pauquacumsuck_ and
_Pequoockeon,_ the latter, wrote Dr. Trumbull, "Because Pequaocks, a
little thick shell-fish was found there, which the Indians waded for;
hence the name 'Wading River,' _Quahaug_ is from this term, and
_Pequaock,_ Oyster Bay." "Iron or Red Creek" explains itself. Wading
River is preserved in the name of a village in the town of Riverhead.

Assawanama--"a tract of land near the town of Huntington called by the
natives _Anendesak,_ in English Eaderneck's Beach, and so along the
Sound four miles, or thereabouts, until [to] the fresh pond called by
the natives _Assaiwanama,_ where a creek runs into the Sound"--describes
"A creek beyond," _i. e._ beyond Anendesak; from Assawa-amhames.

Aquebogue, Aquebauke--"on the north side of Aquebauke or Piaconnock
River" (COl. Hist. N. Y., xiv, 600)--means, "Land or place on this side,"
_i. e._ on the side towards the speaker, as is obvious from the
description, "On the north side," and from the deed of 1648, which
reads: "The whole tract of land called Ocquebauck, together with the
lands and meadows lying on the _other side_ of the water as far as the
creek," the latter called "The Iron or Red Creek," now "Wading River."
The name is preserved in two villages in the town of Riverhead, on the
original tract.

Wopowag, more correctly _Wepowage,_ given as the name of Stony Brook,
town of Brookhaven, describes a place "At the narrows," _i. e._ of a
brook or cove, and usually "The crossing place." (Trumbull.)

So'was'set, correctly _Cowas'sett_ (Moh.), the name of what is now Port
Jefferson, signifies, "Near a place of small pine trees." (Trumbull.)
The name was applied to what was long known as the "Drowned Meadow," but
not the less a "Place of small pine trees" which was at or near the
meadow.

Wickaposset, now given as the name of Fisher's Island, appears to be
from _Wequa,_ "End of," _-paug_ (-peauke), "Waterland," and _-et,_
locative--near the end of the water-land, marsh or pond. The island is
on the north side of the Sound opposite Stonington, Ct., but is included
in the jurisdiction of Southampton.

Hashamomuck, "being a neck of land." (Southold Records.) Hashamomock or
Nashayousuck. (Ib.) The adjectivals _Hash_ and _Nash_ seem to be from
_Nashaué,_ "Between," and _-suck,_ "The mouth or outlet of a brook." The
suffix _-momuck,_ in the first form, may stand for _-komuk,_ "Place"--a
place between. The orthographies are very uncertain.

Minnepaug, "being a little pond with trees standing by it." (Southold
Records.) The name is explained in the description, "A little pond." In
Southampton Records the same pond is called Monabaugs, another
orthography of Minnepaug.

Masspootupaug (1662), describes a boggy meadow or miry land. The
substantival is _Póotapaug,_ Mass., "A bog." The adjectival may stand for
_Mass,_ "Great," or _Matt,_ derogative.

Manowtassquott, or Manowtatassquott, is assigned to Blue Point, in Great
South Bay, town of Brookhaven. The record reads: "Bounded easterly by a
brook or river to the westward of a point called the Blue Point, known
by the Indian name of Manowtatassquott." The name belongs to a place
where Menhaden abounded--Manowka-tuck-ut--from which extended to the
point.

Ochabacowesuck, given as the name of what is now called Pine Neck, stands
for _Acquebacowes-uck,_ meaning, "On this side of the small pines."
Narraganset. _Cówawés-uck,_ "At the young pine place," or "Small-pine
place." _Koowa,_ Eliot; _-es,_ diminutive; _-uck,_ locative. The name of
the tree was from its pointed leaves; _Kous,_ a thorn or briar, or
"having a sharp point." (Trumbull.) _Acqueb,_ "This side."

Ronkonkoma, _Raconkamuck, Wonkonkoamaug, Wonkongamuck, Wonkkeconiaug,
Raconkcamake,_ "A fresh pond, about the middle of Long Island."
(Smithtown Records.) "_Woukkecomaug_ signifying crooked pond." (Indian
deed of 1720.) Obviously from _Wonkun,_ "Bent," and _-komuk,_ "Place,
limited or enclosed." Interpretation from _Wonkon'ous,_ "Fence," and
_-amaug,_ "Fishing-place" (Tooker), has no other standing than that
there was a fence of lopped trees terminating at the pond. The name,
however, was in place before the fence was made. The explanation in the
Indian deed of 1720 cannot be disputed. The pond divides the towns of
Islip, Smithtown, Setauket, and Patchoug.

Potunk, a neck of land on Shinnecock Bay, is written _Potuncke_ in
Smithtown Records, in 1662. "A swamp at Potunk," is another entry. Dr.
Trumbull quoted it as a form of _Po'dunk,_ Conn., which is of primary
record, "Called _Potaecke,_" and given as the name of a "brook or
river." In Brookfield, Mass., a brook bearing the name is said to have
been so called "from a tract of meadow adjoining." In Washington County,
N. Y., is recorded "Podunk Brook." (Cal. Land Papers.) The meaning of the
name is uncertain, but from its wide distribution it is obviously from
a generic--presumably a corruption of _P'tuk-ohke,_ a neck or corner of
land. "The neck next east of Onuck is known by the Indian name of
Potunk." (Local History.)

Mannhonake, the name of Gardiner's Island--"called by the Indians
Mannhonake, [FN] and by us the Isle of Wight"--means, "Island place or
country," from _Munnohhan,_ "Island," and _-auke,_ "Land, ground, place
(not limited or enclosed), country," etc. (Trumbull.) In common with
other islands in Gardiner's Bay, it was recommended, in 1650, as offering
rare inducements for settlement, "Since therein lie the cockles whereof
wampum is made." "The greatest part of the wampum for which the furs are
traded is made there." (Col. Hist. N. Y., xii, 360.) The island was
claimed in the deed as the property of the Narragansetts. Dr. Dwight's
interpretation of the name, "A place where a number of Indians had died,"
is a pure invention.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] _Manchonacke_ is the orthography in patent to Lion Gardiner, 1639.
 (Doc. Hist. N. Y., i, 685.) Dr. Trumbull quotes _Manchonat,_
 Narragansett.


Manah-ackaquasu-wanock, given as the name of Shelter Island, is a
composition of two names, as shown by the record entry, "All that their
island of _Ahaquasu-wamuck,_ otherwise called _Manhansack._"
_Ahaquasu-wamuck_ is no doubt the equivalent of _Aúhaquassu_ (Nar.),
"Sheltered," and _-amuck_ is an equivalent of _amaug,_ "Fishing-place,"
literally, "Sheltered fishing-place." _Menhansack_ is _Manhansick_ in
deed of 1652, and _Munhassett_ and _Manhasett_ in prior deed of 1640.
(East-Hampton Records.) It is a composition from _Munnohan,_ "Island;"
_es,_ "small," and _et,_ "at" and describes a small island as "at" or
"near" some other island. The compound _Manah-ahaquasu-wanock,_ means,
therefore, simply, "Sheltered-fishing-place island," identifying the
island by the fishing-place, while _Manhasett_ identifies it in generic
terms as a small island near some other island or place. [FN] The island
now bears the generic terms _Manhasett._ Pogatacutt, sachem of the
island, is supposed to have lived on what is now known as "Sachem's
Neck." (See Montauk.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Perhaps explained by the entry, "Roberts' Island, situate near
 Manhansack." (Records, Town of East-Hampton.)


Manises, or _Menasses,_ as written by Dr. Trumbull, the name of Block
Island, means, literally, "Small island," just as an Englishman would
describe it. The Narragansetts were its owners. Its earliest European
occupant was Capt. Adriaen Block, who, having lost his vessel by burning
at Manhattan, constructed here another which he called the "Onrust" or
"Restless," in 1614. It was the first vessel constructed by Europeans in
New York waters. In this vessel Block made extended surveys of Hudson's
River, the Connecticut, the Sound, etc. Acquiring from his residence
among them a knowledge of the Connecticut coast dialects, he wrote the
names of tribes on the Hudson in that dialect. Reference is made to what
is better known as the "Carte Figurative of 1614-16." There is no better
evidence that this Figurative was from Block's chart than its presumed
date and the orthographies of the names written on it.




                          * * * * *


                Hudson's River on the West.



Neversink, now so written as the name of the hills on the south side of
the lower or Raritan Bay, is written _Neuversin_ by Van der Donck,
_Neyswesinck_ by Van Tienhoven, _Newasons_ by Ogilby, 1671, and more
generally in early records Naver, Neuver, Newe, and Naoshink. The
original was no doubt the Lenape Newas-ink, "At the point, comer, or
promontory." The root _Ne_ (English _Nâï_), means, "To come to a point,"
"To form a point," or, as rendered by Dr. Trumbull, "A corner, angle or
point," _Nâïag._ Dr. Schoolcraft's translation, "Between waters," and
Dr. O'Callaghan's "A stream between hills," are incorrect, as can be
abundantly proved. (See Nyack.)

Perth Amboy, at the mouth of Raritan River, is in part, from James,
Earl of Perth, Lord High Chancellor of Scotland, who founded a settlement
there, and part from _Amboy_ (English _Ambo_), meaning any rising or
stage, a hill or any elevation. A writer in 1684 notes: "Where the town
of Perth is now building is on a shelf of land rising twenty, thirty and
forty feet." Smith (Hist. of New Jersey) wrote: "_Ambo_, in Indian, 'A
point;'" but there is no such word as _Ambo,_ meaning "A point," in any
Indian dialect. Heckewelder's interpretation: "_Ompoge,_ from which
_Amboy_ is derived, and also _Emboli,_ means 'A bottle,' or a place
resembling a bottle," is equally erroneous, although _Emboli_ may easily
have been an Indian pronunciation of Amboy. The Indian deed of 1651
reads, "From the Raritan Point, called _Ompoge,_" which may be read from
_Ompaé,_ Alg. generic, "Standing or upright," of which _Amboy,_ English,
is a fair interpretation.

Raritangs (Van Tienhoven), _Rariton_ (Van der Donck), _Raretans,
Raritanoos, Nanakans,_ etc., a stream flowing to tide-water west of
Staten Island, extended to the Indian sub-tribal organization which
occupied the Raritan Valley, is from the radical _Nâï,_ "A point," as
in Naragan, Naraticon, Narrangansett, Nanakan, Nahican, etc., fairly
traced by Dr. Trumbull in an analysis of Narragansett, and apparently
conclusively established in Nanakan and Narratschoen on the Hudson, the
Verdrietig Hoek, or "Tedious Point," of Dutch notation, where, after
several forms it culminates in _Navish._ Lindstrom's _Naratic-on,_ on
the lower Delaware, was probably Cape May, and an equivalent
substantially of the New England _Nayantukq-ut,_ "A point on a tidal
river," and Raritan was the point of the peninsula which the clan
occupied terminating on Raritan Bay, where, probably, the name was first
met by Dutch navigators. The dialectic exchange of N and R, and of the
surd mutes _k_ and _t_ are clear in comparing _Nanakan_ on the Hudson,
_Naratic-on_ on the Delaware, and _Raritan_ on the Raritan. Van der
Donck's map locates the clan bearing the name in four villages at and
above the junction of a branch of the stream at New Brunswick, N. J.,
where there is a certain point as well as on Raritan Bay. The clan was
conspicuous in the early days of Dutch New Netherland. Van Tienhoven
wrote that it had been compelled to remove further inland on account of
freshets, but mainly from its inability to resist the raids of the
southern Indians; that the lands which they left unoccupied was between
"two high mountains far distant from one to the other;" that it was "the
handsomest and pleasantest country that man can behold." The great
southern trunk-line Indian path led through this valley, and was then,
as it is now, the great route of travel between the northern and the
southern coast. (See Nanakan, Nyack-on-the-Hudson, and Orange.)

Orange, a familiar name in eastern New Jersey and supposed to refer to
the two mountains that bound the Raritan Valley, may have been from the
name of a sachem or place or both. In Breeden Raedt it is written: "The
delegates from all the savage tribes, such as the Raritans, whose chiefs
called themselves Oringkes from Orange." _Oringkes_ seems to be a form of
_Owinickes,_ from _Owini,_ N. J. (_Inini,_ Chip., _Lenni,_ Del.), meaning
"Original, pure," etc., and _-ke,_ "country"--literally, "First or
original people of the country," an interpretation which agrees with
the claim of the Indians generally when speaking of themselves. [FN]
_Orange_ is _Oranje,_ Dutch, pure and simple, but evidently introduced
to represent the sound of an Indian word. What that word was may,
probably, be traced from the name given as that of the sachem, _Auronge_
(Treaty of 1645), which seems to be an apheresis of _W'scha-já-won-ge,_
"On the hill side," or "On the side of a hill." (Zeisb.) Awonge, Auronge,
Oranje, Orange, is an intelligible progression, and, in connection with
"from Orange," indicates the location of a village or the side of a hill,
which the chiefs represented.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Dr. D. G. Brinton wrote me "I believe you are right in identifying
 _Oringkes_ with _Owine_--possibly with locative _k._"


Succasunna, Morris County, N. J., is probably from _Sûkeu,_ "Black," and
_-achsün,_ "Stone," with substantive verbal affix _-ni._ It seems to
describe a place where there were black stones, but whether there are
black stones there or not has not been ascertained.

Aquackanonck, Aquenonga, Aquainnuck, etc.. is probably from
_Achquam'kan-ong,_ "Bushnet fishing place." Zeisberger wrote
"_Achquanican,_ a fish dam." The locative was a point of land formed by
a bend in Pasaeck River on the east side, now included in the City of
Paterson. Jasper Bankers and Peter Sluyter wrote, in 1679-80:
"Acquakenon: on one side is the kil, on the other is a small stream by
which it (the point) is almost surrounded." The Dutch wrote here,
_Slooterdam,_ _i. e._ a dam with a gate or sluiceway in it, probably
constructed of stone, the sluiceway being left open to enable shad to
run up the stream, and closed by bushes to prevent their return to the
sea. (Nelson.)

Watchung (Wacht-unk, Del.) is from _Wachtschu_ (Zeisb.), "Hill or
mountain," and _-unk,_ locative, "at" or "on." _Wachtsûnk,_ "On the
mountain" (Zeisb.); otherwise written _Wakhunk._ The original application
was to a hill some twelve miles west of the Hudson. The first deed (1667)
placed the boundmark of the tract "At the foot of the great mountain,"
and the second deed (1677) extended the limit "To the top of the mountain
called Watchung."

Achkinckeshacky; _Hackinkeshacky,_ 1645; _Hackinghsackin, Hackinkesack_
(1660); _Hackensack_ (1685); _Ackinsack, Hockquindachque; Hackquinsack,_
are early record forms of the name of primary application to the stream
now known as the Hackensack, from which it was extended to the adjacent
district, to an Indian settlement, and to an Indian sachem, or, as Van
Tienhoven wrote, "A certain savage chief, named Haickquinsacq." (Breeden
Raedt.) The most satisfactory interpretation of the name is that
suggested by the late Dr. Trumbull: "From _Huckquan,_ Mass., _Hócquaan,_
Len., 'Hook,' and _sauk,_ 'mouth of a river'--literally, 'Hook-shaped
mouth,' descriptive of the course of the stream around Bergen Point, by
the Kil van Kull, [FN-1] to New York Bay." Campanus wrote _Hócküng,_
"Hook," and Zeisberger, _Hócquaan._ [FN-2] The German _Hacken,_ now
Hackensack, means "Hook," as in German _Russel Hacken,_ "Pot-hook," a
hook incurved at both ends, as the letter S; in Lenape _Hócquoan_
(Zeisb.). Probably simply a substitution.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] Before entering New York Harbor, Hudson anchored his ship below
 the Narrows and sent out an exploring party in a boat, who entered the
 Narrows and ascended as far as Bergen Point, where they encountered a
 second channel which they explored as far as Newark Bay. The place where
 the second channel was met they called "The Kils," or channels, and so
 it has remained--incorrectly "Kills." The Narrows they called _Col,_ a
 pass or defile, or mountain-pass, hence _Kil van Col,_ channel of the
 Narrow Pass, and hence _Achter Col,_ a place behind the narrow channel.
 "Those [Indians] of Hackingsack, otherwise called Achter Col." (Journal
 of New Neth., 1641-47, Doc. Hist. N. Y., iv, 9.) . . . "Whether the
 Indians would sell us the hook of land behind the Kil van Col." (Col.
 Hist. N. Y., xiii, 280.) Achter Col became a general name for all that
 section of New Jersey. _Kul_ and _Kull_ are corruptions of _Col._
 _Arthur Kull_ is now applied to Newark Bay.

 [FN-2] Heckewelder wrote "_Okhúcquan, Woâkhucquoan,_ or short _Húcquan_
 for the modern _Occoquan,_ the name of a river in Virginia, and
 remarked, 'All these names signify a hook.'" (Trumbull.) Rev. Thomas
 Campanus (Holm), who was chaplain to the Swedish settlements on the
 Delaware, 1642-9, and who collected a vocabulary, wrote _Hócküng_
 (_ueug_), "Hook." This sound of the word may have led the Dutch to
 adopt _Hackingh_ as an orthography--modern _Haking,_ "Hooking," incurved
 as a hook.


Commoenapa, written in several forms, was the name of the most southern
of the six early Dutch settlements on the west side of Hudson's River,
known in their order as Commoenapa, Aresseck, Bergen, Ahasimus,
Hoboken-Hackingh, and Awiehacken. Commoenapa is now preserved as the name
of the upland between Communipaw Avenue and Walnut Street, Jersey City,
but was primarily applied to the arm of the main land beginning at
Konstabel's Hoek, and later to the site of the ancient Dutch village of
Gamœnapa, as written by De Vries in 1640, and by the local scribes,
Gamœnapaen. [FN] (Col. Hist. N. Y. xiii, 36, 37.) Dunlap (Hist. N. Y.,
i, 50) claimed the name as Dutch from _Gemeente,_ "Commons, public
property," and Paen, "Soft land," or in combination, "Tillable land and
marsh belonging to the community," a relation which the lands certainly
sustained. (Col. Hist. N. Y., xiii, 234.) The lands were purchased by
Michael Pauw in 1630, and sold by him to the Dutch government in 1638.
Although clearly a Dutch name it has been claimed as Indian, from Lenape
_Gamenowinink_ (Zeisb.), "England, on the other side of the sea."
_Gamœnapaug,_ one of the forms of the name, is quoted as the basis of
this claim; also, _Acomunipag,_ "On the other side of the bay." The Dutch
did substitute _paen_ for _paug_ in some cases, but it is very doubtful
if they did here.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Jasper Dankers and Peter Sluyter wrote in their Journal:
 "Gamaenapaen is an arm of the main land on the west side of the North
 River, beginning at Constable's Hook, directly opposite to Staten
 Island, from which it is separated by the Kil van Kol. It is almost an
 hour broad, but has large salt meadows or marshes on the Kil van Kol.
 It is everywhere accessible by water from the city."


Ahasimus--_Achassemus_ in deed to Michael Pauw, 1630--now preserved in
Harsimus, was a place lying west of the "Little Island, Aressick;" later
described as "The corn-land of the Indians," indicating that the name
was from Lenape _Chasqummes_ (Zeisb.), "Small corn." _Ashki'muis,_ "Sea
maize." [FN] (See Arisheck.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN] "The aforesaid land Ahasimus and Aressick, by us called the Whore's
 Corner, extending along the river Maurites and the Island Manhates on
 the east side, and the Island Hobokan-Hackingh on the north side,
 surrounded by swamps, which are sufficiently distinct for boundaries."
 (Pauw Deed, Nov. 22, 1630; Col. Hist. N. Y., xiii, 3.) Mr. Winfield
 located Ahasimus "At that portion of Jersey City which lies east of
 Union Hill, excepting Paulus' Hoeck (Areisheck), . . . generally from
 Warren to near Grove Street."


Bergen, the name of the third settlement, is met in Scandinavian and in
German dialects. "Bergen, the Flemish for Mons (Latin), 'a hill,' a town
of Belgium." (Lippincott.) "Bergen, op. Zoom, 18 miles north of Antwerp,
'a hill at (or near) the bank,' or border." The original settlement was
on what is now known as Jersey City Heights.

Arisheck--"The Little Island Aressick" (See Ahasimus), called by the
Dutch Aresseck Houck, Hoeren Houck, and Paulus Houck--now the eastern
point of Jersey City--was purchased from the Indians by Michael Pauw,
Nov. 22, 1630, with "the land called Ahasimus," and, with the "Island
Hobokan-Hackingh," purchased by him in July of the same year, was
included in his plantation under the general name of Pavonia, a Latinized
form of his own name, from Pavo, "Peacock" (Dutch Pauw), which is
retained in the name of the Erie R. R. Ferry. Primarily, Arisseck was a
low neck of land divided by a marsh, the eastern end forming what was
called an island. The West India Company had a trading post there
conducted by one Michael Paulis, from whom it was called Paulus' Hook,
which it retains, Pauw also established a trading post there which, as
it lay directly in the line of the great Indian trunk-path (see
Saponickan), so seriously interfered with the trade of the Dutch post
that the Company purchased the land from him in 1638, and in the same
year sold the island to one Abraham Planck. In the deed to Planck the
description reads: "A certain parcel of land called Pauwels Hoek,
situated westward of the Island Manhates and eastward of Ahasimus,
extending from the North River into the valley which runs around it
there." (Col. Hist. N, Y., xiii, 3.) The Indian name, _Arisheck_ or
_Aresseck,_ is so badly corrupted that the original cannot be
satisfactorily detected, but, by exchanging _n_ for _r,_ and adding the
initial _K,_ we would have _Kaniskeck,_ "A long grassy marsh or meadow."

Hoboken, now so written--_Hobocan-Hacking,_ July, 1630; _Hobokan-Hacking,_
Nov. 1630; _Hobokina,_ 1635; _Hobocken,_ 1643; _Hoboken,_ 1647; _Hobuck_
and _Harboken,_ 1655-6--appears of record first in the Indian deed to
Michael Pauw, July 12, 1630, negotiated by the Director-general and
Council of New Netherland, and therein by them stated, "By us called
Hobocan-Hacking." Primarily it was applied to the low promontory [FN-1]
below Castle Point, [FN-2] bounded, recites the deed, on the south by
the "land Ahasimus and Aressick." On ancient charts Aressick and
Hoboken-Hacking are represented as two long necks of land or points
separated by a cove on the river front now filled in, both points being
called hooks. In records it was called an island, and later as "A neck of
land almost an island, called Hobuk, . . . extending on the south side
to Ahasimus; eastward to the river Mauritus, and on the west side
surrounded by a valley or morass through which the boundary can be seen
with sufficient clearness." (Winfield's Hist. Hudson Co.; Col. Hist.
N. Y., xiii, 2, 3, 4.) In "Freedoms and Exemptions," 1635; "But every one
is notified that the Company reserves, unto itself the Island Manhates;
Fort Orange, with the lands and islands appertaining thereto; Staten
Island; the land of Achassemes, Arassick and Hobokina." The West India
Company purchased the latter lands from Michael Pauw in 1638-9, and
leased and sold in three parcels as stated in the Pauw deeds. The first
settlement of the parcel called by the Dutch Hobocan-Hacking is located
by Whitehead (Hist. East N. J.) immediately north of Hobokan Kill and
called _Hobuk._ Smith, in his "History of New Jersey," wrote _Hobuck,_
and stated that it was a plantation "owned by a Dutch merchant who in
the Indian wars, had his wife, children and servants murdered by the
Indians." In a narrative of events occurring in 1655, it is written:
"Presently we saw the house on Harboken in flames. This done the whole
Pavonia was immediately in flames." [FN-3] (Col. Hist. N. Y., xii, 98.)
The deed statement, "By us named," is explicit, and obviously implies
that the terms in the name were Dutch and not Indian, and Dutch they
surely were. Dr. A. S. Gatschet, of the Bureau of Ethnology, wrote me:
"Hoboken, called after a village on the river Scheldt, a few miles below
Antwerp, [FN-4] and after a high elevation on its north side. _Ho-,_
_hoh-,_ is the radical of 'high' in all German dialects, and _Buck_ is
'elevation' in most of them. _Buckel_ (Germ.), _Bochel_ (Dutch), means
'hump,' 'hump-back.' _Hump_ (Low German) is 'heap,' 'hill.' _Ho-bok-an_
locates a place that is distinguished by a hill, or by a hill in some
way associated with it." Presumably from the ancient village of Hoboken
came to Manhattan, about 1655, one Harmon van Hobocoon, a schoolmaster,
who evidently was given his family name from the village from whence he
came. He certainly did not give his family name to Hoboken twenty years
prior to his landing at Manhattan.

_Hacking_ and _Haken_ are unquestionably Dutch from the radical _Haak,_
"hook." The first is a participle, meaning _Hooking,_ "incurved as a
hook," by metonymie, "a hook." It was used in that sense by the early
Dutch as a substitute for Lenape _Hócquan,_ "hook," in Hackingsack, and
Zeisberger used it in "_Ressel Hacken,_ pot-hook." No doubt Stuyvesant
used it in the same sense in writing _Hobokan-Hacking,_ describing
thereby both a hill and a hook, corresponding with the topography, to
distinguish it from its twin-hook Arisheck. Had there been an Indian
name given him for it, he would have written it as surely as he wrote
Arisheck. When he wrote, "By us called," he meant just what he said and
what he understood the terms to mean. To assume that he wrote the terms
as a substitute for Lenape _Hopoakan-hacki-ug,_ "At (or on) the
smoking-pipe land." or place where materials were obtained for making
smoking-pipes, has no warrant in the record narrative. _Hacking_ was
dropped from the name in 1635.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] An ancient view of the shore-line represents it as a considerable
 elevation--a hill.

 [FN-2] Castle Point is just below Wehawken Cove in which Hudson is
 supposed to have anchored his ship in 1609. In Juet's Journal this land
 is described as "beautiful" and the cliff as of "the color of white
 green, as though it was either a copper or silver mine." It has long
 been a noted resort for mineralogists.

 [FN-3] Teunissed van Putten was the first white resident of Hoboken. He
 leased the land for twelve years from Jan. 1, 1641. The West India
 Company was to erect a small house for him. Presumably this house is
 referred to in the narrative. It was north of Hoboken Kill.

 [FN-4] Now a commercial village of Belgium. The prevailing dialect
 spoken there was Flemish, usually classed as Low German. The Low German
 dialects of three centuries ago are imperfectly represented in modern
 orthographies. In and around Manhattan eighteen different European
 dialects were spoken, as noted of record--Dutch, Flemish, German,
 Scandinavian, Walloon, etc.


Wehawken and Weehawken, as now written, is written _Awiehaken_ in deed
by Director Stuyvesant, 1658-9. Other orthographies are Wiehacken,
Whehockan, Weehacken, Wehauk, obvious corruptions of the original, but
all retaining a resemblance in sound. The name is preserved as that of
a village, a ferry, and a railroad station about three miles north of
Jersey City, and is historically noted for its association with the
ancient custom of dueling, the particular resort for that purpose being
a rough shelf of the cliff about two and one-half miles north of Hoboken
and about opposite 28th Street, Manhattan. The locative of the name is
described in a grant by Director Stuyvesant, in 1647, to one Maryn
Adriaensen, of "A piece of land called Awiehaken, situate on the west
side of the North River, bounded on the south by Hoboken Kil, and running
thence north to the next kil, and towards the woods with the same
breadth, altogether fifty morgens of land." [FN] (Col. Hist. N. Y.,
xiii, 22.) The "next kil" is presumed to have been that flowing to the
Hudson in a wild ravine just south of the dueling ground, now called the
Awiehackan. A later description (1710) reads: "Between the southernmost
cliffs of Tappaen and Ahasimus, at a place called Wiehake." (Cal. N. Y.
Land Papers, 98.) The petition was by Samuel Bayard, who then owned the
land on both sides of Wiehacken Creek, for a ferry charter covering the
passage "Between the southernmost cliffs of Tappaen and New York Island,
at a place called Wiehake," the landing-place of which was established
at or near the mouth of Awiehacken Creek just below what is now known as
King's Point. Of the location generally Winfield (Hist.. Hudson Co.,
N. J.) wrote: "Before the iconoclastic hand of enterprise had touched it
the whole region about was charming beyond description. Just south of
the dueling ground was the wild ravine down which leaped and laughed the
Awiehacken. Immediately above the dueling ground was King's Point looking
boldly down upon the Hudson. From this height still opens as fair, as
varied, as beautiful a scene as one could wish to see. The rocks rise
almost perpendicularly to one hundred and fifty feet above the river.
Under these heights, about twenty feet above the water, on a shelf about
six feet wide and eleven paces long, reached by an almost inaccessible
flight of steps, was the dueling ground." South of King's Point were the
famed Elysian Fields, at the southern extremity of which, under Castle
Point, was Sibyl's Cave, a rocky cavern containing a fine spring of
water.

The place to which the name was applied in the deed of 1658 seems to have
been an open tract between the streams named, presumably a field lying
along the Hudson, from the description, "running back towards the woods,"
suggesting that it was from the Lenape radical _Tauwa,_ as written by
Zeisberger in _Tauwi-échen,_ "Open;" as a noun, "Open or unobstructed
space, clear land, without trees." Dropping the initial we have _Auwi,
Awie,_ of the early orthography; dropping _A_ we have _Wie_ and _Wee,_
and from _-échen_ we have _-ákan, -haken, -hawking,_ etc. As the name
stands now it has no meaning in itself, although a Hollander might read
_Wie_ as _Wei,_ "A meadow," and _Hacken_ as "Hooking," incurved as a
hook, which would fairly describe Weehawking Cove as it was.

Submitted to him in one of its modern forms, the late Dr. Trumbull wrote
that _Wehawing_ "Seemed" to him as "most probably from _Wehoak,_ Mohegan,
and _-ing,_ Lenape, locative, 'At the end (of the Palisades)'" and in
his interpretation violated his own rules of interpretation which
require that translation of Indian names must be sought in the dialect
spoken in the district where the name appears. The word for "End," in
the dialect spoken here, was _Wiqui._ Zeisberger wrote _Wiquiechung,_
"End, point," which certainly does not appear in any form of the name.
The Dr.'s translation is simply worthless, as are several others that
have been suggested. It is surprising that the Dr. should quote a
Mohegan adjectival and attach to it a Lenape locative suffix.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] A Dutch "morgen"' was about two English acres.


Espating (_Hespating,_ Staten Island deed) is claimed to have been the
Indian name of what is now known as Union Hill, in Jersey City, where,
it is presumed, there was an Indian village. The name is from the root
_Ashp_ (_Usp,_ Mass.; _Esp,_ Lenape; _Ishp,_ Chip.), "High," and _-ink,_
locative, "At or on a high place." From the same root Ishpat-ink,
Hespating. (O'Callaghan.) See Ashpetong.

Siskakes, now Secaucus, is written as the name of a tract on Hackensack
meadows, from which it was extended to Snake Hill. It is from
_Sikkâkâskeg,_ meaning "Salt sedge marsh." (Gerard.) The Dutch found
snakes on Snake Hill and called it Slangberg, literally, "Snake Hill."

Passaic is a modern orthography of _Pasaeck_ (Unami-Lenape), German
notation, signifying "Vale or valley." Zeisberger wrote _Pachsójeck_ in
the Minsi dialect. The valley gave name to the stream. In Rockland County
it has been corrupted to Paskack, Pasqueck, etc.

Paquapick is entered on Pownal's map as the name of Passaic Falls. It is
from _Poqui,_ "Divided, broken," and _-ápuchk,_ "Rock." Jasper Dankers
and Peter Sluyter, who visited the falls in 1679-80, wrote in their
Journal that the falls were "formed by a rock stretching obliquely across
the river, the top dry, with a chasm in the center about ten feet wide
into which the water rushed and fell about eighty feet." It is this rock
and chasm to which the name refers--"Divided rock," or an open place in
a rock.

Pequannock, now so written, is the name of a stream flowing across the
Highlands from Hamburgh, N. J. to Pompton, written Pachquak'onck by Van
der Donck (1656); Paquan-nock or Pasqueck, in 1694; Paqunneck, Indian
deed of 1709, and in other forms, was the name of a certain field, from
which it was extended to the stream. Dr. Trumbull recognized it as the
equivalent of Mass. _Paquan'noc, Pequan'nuc, Pohqu'un-auke,_ etc., "A
name common to all cleared land, _i. e._ land from which the trees and
bushes had been removed to fit it for cultivation." Zeisberger wrote,
_Pachqu (Paghqu),_ as in _Pachqu-échen,_ "Meadow;" _Pachquak'onck,_ "At
(or on) the open land."

Peram-sepus, Paramp-seapus, record forms of the name of Saddle River,
[FN] Bergen County, N. J., and adopted in _Paramus_ as the name of an
early Dutch village, of which one reads in Revolutionary history as the
headquarters of General George Clinton's Brigade, appears in deed for a
tract of land the survey of which reads: "Beginning at a spring called
_Assinmayk-apahaka,_ being the northeastern most head-spring of a river
called by the Indians _Peram-sepus,_ and by the Christians Saddle River."
Nelson (Hist. Ind. of New Jersey) quoted from a deed of 1671:
"_Warepeake,_ a run of water so called by the Indians, but the right
name is _Rerakanes,_ by the English called Saddle River." _Peram-sepus_
also appears as _Wieramius,_ suggesting that _Pera, Para, Wara,_ and
_Wiera_ were written as equivalent sounds, from the root _Wil (Willi,
Winne, Wirri, Waure),_ meaning, "Good, fine, pleasant," etc. The suffix
varies, _Sepus_ meaning "Brook"; _Peake (-peék),_ "Water-place," and
_Anes,_ "Small stream," or, substantially, _Sepus,_ which, by the prefix
_Ware,_ was pronounced "A fine stream," or place of water.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Called "Saddle River," probably, from Richard Saddler, a purchaser
 of lands from the Indians in 1674. (Col. Hist. N. Y., xiii, 478.)


Monsey, a village in Rockland County, takes that name from an Indian
resident who was known by his tribal name, _Monsey_--"the Monseys,
Minsis, or Minisinks."

Mahway, Mawayway, Mawawier, etc., a stream and place now Mahway, N. J.,
was primarily applied to a place described: "An Indian field called
Maywayway, just over the north side of a small red hill called
Mainatanung." The stream, on an old survey, is marked as flowing south
to the Ramapo from a point west of Cheesekook Mountain. The name is
probably from _Mawéwi_ (Zeisb.), "Assembly," where streams or paths, or
boundaries, meet or come together. (See Mahequa.)

Mainaitanung, Cal. N. Y. Land Papers, and _Mainating_ in N. J. Records,
given as the name of "A small red hill" (see Mahway), does not describe
a "Red hill," but a place "at" a small hill--_Min-attinuey-unk._ The
suffixed locative, _-unk,_ seems to have been generally used in
connection with the names of hills.

Pompton--_Ponton,_ East N. J. Records, 1695; _Pompeton, Pumpton, Pompeton,_
N. Y. Records--now preserved in Pompton as the name of a village at the
junction of the Pequannock, the Wynokie, and the Ramapo, and continued
as the name of the united stream south of Pompton Village to its junction
with the Passaic, and also as the name of a town in Passaic County,
N. J., as well as in Pompton Falls, Pompton Plains, etc., and historically
as the name of an Indian clan, appears primarily as the name of the Ramapo
River as now known. It is not met in early New York Records, but in
English Records, in 1694, a tract of land is described as being "On a
river called Paquannock, or Pasqueck, near the falls of Pampeton," and
in 1695, in application to lands described as lying "On Pompton Creek,
about twenty miles above ye mouth of said creek where it falls into
Paquanneck River," the particular place referred to being known as
Ramopuch, and now as Ramapo. (See Ramapo.) Rev. Heckewelder located the
name at the mouth of the Pompton (as now known) where it falls into the
Passaic, and interpreted it from _Pihm_ (root _Pimé_), "Crooked mouth,"
an interpretation now rejected by Algonquian students from the fact that
the mouth of the stream is not crooked. A reasonable suggestion is that
the original was _Pomoten,_ a representative town, or a combination of
towns. [FN-1] which would readily be converted to Pompton. In 1710,
"Memerescum, 'sole sachem of all the nations (towns or families) of
Indians on Remopuck River, and on the east and west branches thereof, on
Saddle River, Pasqueck River, Narranshunk River and Tappan,' gave title
to all the lands in upper or northwestern Bergen and Passaic counties."
(Nelson, "Indians of New Jersey," 111), indicating a combination of
clans. Fifty years later the tribal title is entered in the treaty of
Easton (1758) as the "Wappings, Opings or Pomptons," [FN-2] as claimants
of an interest in lands in northern New Jersey, [FN-3] subordinately to
the "Minsis, Monseys or Minisinks," with whom the treaty was made. The
clan was then living at Otsiningo as ward's of the Senecas, and seems to
have been composed of representatives of several historic northern New
Jersey families. It has been inferred that their designation as
"Wappings" classed them as immigrants from the clans on the east side of
the Hudson. Obviously, however, the term described them as of the most
eastern family of the Minsis or Minisinks, which they were.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] _Pomoteneyu,_ "There are towns." (Zeisb.) Pompotowwut-Muhheakan-neau,
 was the name of the capital town of the Mahicans.

 [FN-2] So recognized in the treaty of Easton.

 [FN-3] The territory in which the Pomptons claimed an interest included
 northern New Jersey as bounded on the north by a line drawn from
 Cochecton, Sullivan County, to the mouth of Tappan Creek on the Hudson,
 thence south to Sandy Hook, thence west to the Delaware, and thence
 north to Cochecton, lat. 41 deg. 40 min., as appears by treaty deed in
 Smith's hist, of New Jersey.


Ramapo, now so written and applied to a village and a town in Rockland
County, and also to a valley, a stream of water and adjacent hills, is
written Ramepog in N. Y. Records, 1695; Ramepogh, 1711, and Ramapog in
1775. In New Jersey Records the orthographies are Ramopock, Romopock and
Remopuck, and on Smith's map Ramopough. The earliest description of the
locative of the name appears in N. Y. Records, 1695: "A certain tract of
land in Orange County called Ramepogh, being upon Pompton Creek, about
twenty miles above ye mouth of said creek where it falls into Pequanneck
River, being a piece of low land lying at ye forks on ye west side of ye
creek, and going down the said creek for ye space of six or seven miles
to a small run running into said creek out of a small lake, several
pieces of land lying on both sides of said creek, computed in all about
ninety or one hundred acres, _with upland adjoining_ thereto to ye
quantity of twelve hundred acres." In other words: "A piece of low land
lying at the forks of said river, about twenty miles above the mouth of
the stream where it falls into the Pequannock, with upland adjoining."
The Pompton, so called then, is now the Ramapo, and the place described
in the deed has been known as Remapuck, Romapuck, Ramopuck, Ramapock,
Pemerpuck, and Ramapo, since the era of first settlement. The somewhat
poetic interpretation of the name, "Many ponds," is without warrant, nor
does the name belong to a "Round pond," or to the stream, now the Ramapo
except by extension to it. Apparently, by dialectic exchange of initials
L and R, _Reme, Rama,_ or _Romo_ becomes _Lamó_ from _Lomówo_ (Zeisb.),
"Downward, slanting, oblique," and _-pogh, -puck,_ etc., is a compression
of _-apughk_ (_-puchk_, German notation), meaning--"Rock."
_Lamów-ápuchk,_ by contraction and pronunciation, _Ramápuck,_ meaning
"Slanting rock," an equivalent of _Pimápuchk,_ met in the district in
Pemerpock, in 1674, denoting "Place or country of the slanting rock."
[FN] Ramapo River is supposed to have its head in Round Pond, in the
northwest part of the town of Monroe, Orange County. It also received
the overflow of eight other ponds. Ramapo Pass, beginning about a mile
below Pierson's, is fourteen miles long. (See Pompton.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Dr. John C. Smock, late State Geologist of New Jersey, wrote me of
 the location of the name at Suffern: "There is the name of the stream
 and the name of the settlement (in Rockland County, near the New Jersey
 line), and the land is low-lying, and along the creek, and above a
 forks, _i. e._ above the forks at Suffern. On the 1774 map in my
 possession, Romapock is certainly the present Ramapo. The term 'Slanting
 rock' is eminently applicable to that vicinity." The Ramapock Patent of
 1704 covered 42,500 acres, and, with the name, followed the mountains
 as its western boundary.


Wynokie, now so written as the name of a stream flowing to the Pequannock
at Pompton, takes that name from a beautiful valley through which it
passes, about thirteen miles northwest of Paterson. The stream is the
outlet of Greenwood Lake and is entered on old maps as the Ringwood. The
name is in several orthographies--Wanaque, Wynogkee, Wynachkee, etc. It
is from the root _Win,_ "Good, fine, pleasant," and _-aki,_ land or
place. (See Wynogkee.)

Pamerpock, 1674, now preserved in _Pamrepo_ as the name of a village in
the northwest part of the city of Bayonne, N. J., is probably another
form of _Pemé-apuchk,_ "Slanting rock." [FN] (See Ramapo.) The name
seems to have been widely distributed.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] _Pemé_ is _Pemi_ in the Massachusetts dialect. "It may generally
 be translated by 'sloping' or 'aslant.' In Abnaki _Pemadené
 (Pemi-adené)_ denotes a sloping mountain side," wrote Dr. Trumbull. The
 affix, _-ápuchk,_ changes the meaning to sloping rock, or "slanting
 rock," as Zeisberger wrote.


Hohokus, the name of a village and of a railroad station, is probably
from _Mehŏkhókus_ (Zeisb.), "Red cedar." It was, presumably, primarily
at least, a place where red cedar abounded. The Indian name of the stream
here is written _Raighkawack,_ an orthography of _Lechauwaak,_ "Fork"
(Zeisb.), which, by the way, is also the name of a place.

Tuxedo, now a familiar name, is a corruption of _P'tuck-sepo,_ meaning,
"A crooked river or creek." Its equivalent is _P'tuck-hanné_ (Len. Eng.
Dic.), "A bend in the river"--"Winding in the creek or river"--"A bend
in a river." The earliest form of the original appears in 1754--Tuxcito,
1768; Tuxetough, Tugseto, Duckcedar, Ducksider, etc., are later.
Zeisberger wrote _Pduk,_ from which probably Duckcedar. The name seems
to have been that of a bend in the river at some point in the vicinity
of Tuxedo Pond to which it was extended from a certain bend or bends in
the stream. A modern interpretation from _P'tuksit,_ "Round foot," is of
no merit except in its first word. It was the metaphorical name, among
the Delawares, of the wolf. It would be a misnomer applied to either a
river or a pond. _Sepo_ is generic for a long river. (See Esopus.)

Mombasha, Mombashes, etc., the name of a small lake in Southfield, Orange
County, is presumed to be a corruption of _M'biìsses_ (Zeisb.), "Small
lake or pond," "Small water-place." The apostrophe indicates a sound
produced with the lips closed, readily pronouncing _o_ (Mom). Charles
Clinton, in his survey of the Cheesec-ook Patent in 1735, wrote
Mount-Basha. Mombasa is an Arabic name for a coral island on the east
coast of Africa. It may have been introduced here as the sound of the
Indian name.

Wesegrorap, Wesegroraep, Wassagroras, given as the name of "A barren
plain," in the Kakiate Patent, is probably from Wisachgan, "Bitter," sad,
distressing, pitiable. Ziesberger wrote, "Wisachgak, Black oak," the
bark of which is bitter and astringent. A black oak tree on "the
west-southwest side" of the plain may have given name to the plain.

Narranshaw, Nanaschunck, etc., a place so called in the Kakiate Patent
boundary, is probably a corruption of Van der Donck's _Narratschæn,_
"A promontory" or high point. (See Nyack-on-the-Hudson.)

Kakiate, the name of patented lands in Rockland County, is from Dutch
_Kijkuit,_ meaning "Look out," or "Place of observation, as a tower,
hill," etc. The highest hill in Westchester County bears the same name
in _Kakcout,_ and _Kaykuit_ is the name of a hill in Kingston, Ulster
County. The tract to which the name was extended in Rockland County is
described, "Commonly called by the Indians _Kackyachteweke,_ on a neck of
land which runs under a great hill, bounded on the north by a creek
called Sheamaweck or Peasqua." Hackyackawack is another orthography. The
name seems to be from _Schach-achgeu-ackey,_ meaning "Straight land,"
"Straight along," (Zeisb.); _i. e._ direct, as "A neck of land"--"A pass
between mountains," or, as the description reads, "A neck of land which
runs under a great hill." Compare Cal. N. Y. Land Papers, 48, 183, etc.

Torne, the name of a high hill which forms a conspicuous object in the
Ramapo Valley, is from Dutch _Torenherg,_ "A tower or turret, a high
pointed hill, a pinnacle." (Prov. Eng.) The hill is claimed to have been
the northwest boundmark of the Haverstraw Patent. In recent times it has
been applied to two elevations, the Little Torne, west of the Hudson, and
the Great Torne, near the Hudson, south of Haverstraw. (Cal. N. Y. Land
Papers, 46.)

Cheesek-ook, Cheesek-okes, Cheesec-oks, Cheesquaki, are forms of the name
given as that of a tract of "Upland and meadow," so described in Indian
deed, 1702, and included in the Cheesek-ook Patent, covering parts of the
present counties of Rockland and Orange. It is now preserved as the name
of a hill, to which it was assigned at an early date, and is also quoted
as the name of adjacent lands in New Jersey. The suffix _-ook, -oke,
-aki,_ etc., shows that it was the name of land or place (N. J., _-ahke;_
Len. _-aki_). It is probably met in _Cheshek-ohke,_ Ct., translated by
Dr. Trumbull from _Kussukoe,_ Moh., "High," and _-ohke,_ "Land or
place"--literally, high land or upland. The final _s_ in some forms, is
an English plural: it does not belong to the root. (See Coxackie.) In
pronunciation the accent should not be thrown on the letter _k_; that
letter belongs to the first word. There is no _Kook_ about it.

Tappans, Carte Figurative of date (presumed) 1614-16, is entered thereon
as the name of an Indian village in Lat. 41° 15', claimed, traditionally,
to have been at or near the site of the later Dutch village known as
Tappan, in Rockland County. In the triangulation of the locative on the
ancient map is inscribed, "En effen veldt" (a flat field), the general
character of which probably gave name to the Indian village. Primarily,
it was a district of low, soft land, abounding in marshes and long
grasses, with little variation from level, extending along the Hudson
from Tappan to Bergen Point, a distance of twenty-seven miles. Wassenaer
wrote, in 1621-25, _Tapants_; DeLaet wrote, in 1624, _Tappaans_; in
Breeden Raedt, _Tappanders_; _Tappaen,_ De Vries, 1639; _Tappaen,_ Van
der Horst deed, 1651: _Tappaens,_ official Dutch; "Savages of _Tappaen_";
_Tappaans,_ Van der Donck, are the early orthographies of the name and
establish it as having been written by the Dutch with the long sound of
_a_ in the last word--_paan_ (-paen)--which may be read _pan,_ as a pan
of any kind, natural or artificial--a stratum of earth lying below the
soil--the pan of a tap into which water flows--a mortar pit. [FN-1] The
compound word _Tap-pan_ is not found in modern Dutch dictionaries, but
it evidently existed in some of the German dialects, as it is certainly
met in _Tappan-ooli (uli)_ on the west coast of Summatra, in application,
to a low district lying between the mountains and the sea, opposite a
fine bay, in Dutch possession as early as 1618, and also in
_Tappan-huacanga,_ a Dutch possession in Brazil of contemporary date. It
is difficult to believe that Tappan was transferred to those distant
parts from an Indian name on Hudson's River; on the contrary its presence
in those parts forces the conclusion that it was conferred by the Dutch
from their own, or from some dialect with which they were familiar,
precisely as it was on Hudson's River and was descriptive of a district
of country the features of which supply the meaning. DeLaet wrote in his
"New World" (Leyden Edition, 1625-6) of the general locative of the name
on the Hudson: "Within the first reach, on the west side of the river,
where the land is low, dwells a nation of savages named _Tappaans,_"
presumably so named by the Dutch from the place where they had
jurisdiction, _i. e._ the low lands. Specifically, De Vries wrote in
1639, _Tappaen_ as the name of a place where he found and purchased, "A
beautiful valley of clay land, some three or four feet above the water,
lying under the mountains, along the river," presumed to have been in the
meadows south of Piermont, into which flows from the mountains Tappan
Creek, now called Spar Kill, [FN-2] as well as the overflow of Tappan
Zee, of which he wrote without other name than "bay": "There flows here
a strong flood and ebb, but the ebb is not more than four feet on account
of the great quantity of water that flows from above, overflowing the
low lands in the spring," converting them into veritable soft lands.
_Gamænapaen,_ now a district in Jersey City, was interpreted by the
late Judge Benson, "Tillable land and marsh." Dr. Trumbull wrote:
"_Petuckquapaugh,_ Dumpling Pond (round pond) gave name to part of the
township of Greenwich, Ct. The Dutch called this tract _Petuck-quapaen._"
The tract is now known as Strickland Plain, [FN-3] and is described as
"Plain and water-land"--"A valley but little above tidewater; on the
southwest an extended marsh now reclaimed in part." The same general
features were met in _Petuckquapaen,_ now Greenbath, opposite Albany,
N. Y. Dr. Trumbull also wrote, "The Dutch met on Long Island the word
_Seaump_ as the name of corn boiled to a pap. The root is _Saupáe_
(Eliot), 'soft,' _i. e._ 'made soft by water,' as _Saupáe manoosh,_
'mortar,' literally 'softened clay.' Hence the Dutch word
_Sappaen_--adopted by Webster _Se-pawn._" Other examples could be quoted
but are not necessary to establish the meaning of Dutch Tappaan, or
Tappaen. An interpretation by Rev. Heckewelder, quoted by Yates &
Moulton, and adopted by Brodhead presumably without examination: "From
_Thuhaune_ (Del.), cold stream," is worthless. No Delaware Indian would
have given it as the name of Tappan Creek, and no Hollander would have
converted it into Tappaan or Tappaen.

The Palisade Range, which enters the State from New Jersey, and borders
the Hudson on the west, terminates abruptly at Piermont. Classed by
geologists as Trap Rock, or rock of volcanic origin, adds interest to
their general appearance as calumnar masses. The aboriginal owners were
not versed in geologic terms. To them the Palisades were simply _-ompsk,_
"Standing or upright rock."

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] _Paen,_ old French, meaning _Pagan,_ a heathen or resident of a
 heath, from _Pagus,_ Latin, a heath, a district of waste land.

 [FN-2] Tappan Creek is now known as the Spar Kill, and ancient Tappan
 Landing as Tappan Slote. _Slote_ is from Dutch _Sloot._ "Dutch, trench,
 moat." "Sloops could enter the mouth of the creek, if lightly laden, at
 high tide, through what, from its resemblance to a ditch, was called the
 Slote." (Hist. Rockl. Co.) The man or men who changed the name of the
 creek to Spar Kill cannot be credited with a very large volume of
 appreciation for the historic. The cove and mouth of the creek was no
 doubt the landing-place from which the Indian village was approached,
 and the latter was accepted for many years as the boundmark on the
 Hudson of the jurisdiction of New Jersey.

 [FN-3] Strickland Plain was the site of the terrible massacre of Indians
 by English and Dutch troops under Capt. Underhill, in March, 1645.
 (Broadhead, Hist. N. Y., i, 390.) About eight hundred Indians were
 killed by fire and sword, and a considerable number of prisoners taken
 and sold into slavery. The Indian fort here was in a retreat of
 difficult access.


Mattasink, Mattaconga and Mattaconck, forms of names given to certain
boundmarks "of the land or island called Mattasink, or Welch's Island,"
Rockland County, describe two different features. _Mattaconck_ was "a
swampy or hassocky meadow," lying on the west side of Quaspeck Pond, from
whence the line ran north, 72 degrees east, "to the south side of the
rock on the top of the hill," called Mattasinck. In the surveyor's notes
the rock is described as "a certain rock in the form of a sugar loaf."
The name is probably an equivalent of _Mat-assin-ink,_ "At (or to) a bad
rock," or a rock of unusual form. _Mattac-onck_ seems to be an
orthography of _Maskék-onck,_ "At a swamp or hassocky meadow." Surd mutes
and linguals are so frequently exchanged in this district that locatives
must be relied upon to identify names. _Mattac_ has no meaning in itself.
The sound is that of _Maskék._

Nyack, Rockland County, does not take that name from _Kestaub-niuk,_ a
place-name on the east side of the Hudson, as stated by Schoolcraft, nor
was the name imported from Long Island, as stated by a local historian;
on the contrary, it is a generic Algonquian term applicable to any point.
It was met in place here at the earliest period of settlement in
application to the south end of Verdrietig Hoek Mountain, as noted in
"The Cove or Nyack Patent," near or on which the present village of Nyack
has its habitations. It means "Land or place at the angle, point or
corner," from _Néïak_ (Del.), "Where there is a point." (See Nyack,
L. I.) The root appears in many forms in record orthographies, due
largely to the efforts of European scribes to express the sound in either
the German or the English alphabet. Adriaen Block wrote, in 1614-16,
_Nahicans_ as the name of the people on Montauk Point; Eliot wrote
_Naiyag_ (_-ag_ formative); Roger Williams wrote _Nanhigan_ and
_Narragan;_ Van der Donck wrote _Narratschoan_ on the Verdrietig Hoek
Mountain on the Hudson; _Naraticon_ appears on the lower Delaware, and
_Narraoch_ and _Njack_ (Nyack) are met on Long Island. The root is the
same in all cases, Van der Donck's _Narratschoan_ on the Hudson, and
_Narraticon_ on the Delaware, meaning "The point of a mountain which has
the character of a promontory," kindred to _Néwas_ (Del.), "A
promontory," or a high point. [FN] The Indian name of Verdrietig Hoek,
or Tedious Point, is of record _Newas-ink_ in the De Hart Patent, and in
several other forms of record--Navish, Navoash-ink, Naurasonk, Navisonk,
Newasons, etc., and Neiak takes the forms of Narratsch, Narrich, Narrock,
Nyack, etc. Verdrietig Hoek, the northeastern promontory of Hook
Mountain, is a rocky precipitous bluff forming the angle of the range.
It rises six hundred and sixty-eight feet above the level of the Hudson
into which it projects like a buttress. Its Dutch-English name "Tedious
Point," has been spoken of in connection with _Pocantico,_ which see.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Dr. Trumbull wrote: "_Náï,_ 'Having corners'; _Náïyag,_ 'A corner
 or angle'; _Náïg-an-eag,_ 'The people about the point.'" William R.
 Gerard wrote: "The Algonquian root _Ne_ (written by the English _Náï_)
 means 'To come to a point,' or 'To form a point.' From this came Ojibwe
 _Naiá-shi,_ 'Point of land in a body of water.' The Lenape _Newás,_ with
 the locative affix, makes _Newás-ing,_ 'At the promontory.' The Lenape
 had another word for 'Point of land.' This was _Néïak_ (corrupted to
 Nyack). It is the participial form of _Néïan,_ 'It is a point.' The
 participle means, 'Where there is a point,' or literally, 'There being
 a point.'"


Essawatene--"North by the top of a certain hill called Essawatene," so
described in deed to Hermanus Dow, in 1677--means "A hill beyond," or on
the other side of the speaker. It is from _Awassi_ (Len.), "Beyond," and
_-achtenne,_ "Hill," or mountain. _Oosadenighĕ_ (Abn.), "Above, beyond,
the mountain," or "Over the mountain." We have the same derivative in
_Housaten-ûk,_ now Housatonic.

Quaspeck, Quaspeek, Quaspeach, "Quaspeach or Pond Patent"--"A tract of
land called in the Indian language Quaspeach, being bounded by the brook
Kill-the-Beast, running out of a great pond." (Cal. N. Y. Land Papers,
53, 56, 70, 82.) The land included in the patent was described as "A
hassocky meadow on the west side of the lake." (See Mattasink.) The full
meaning of the name is uncertain. The substantival _-peék,_ or _-peach,_
means "Lake, pond or body of still water." [FN] As the word stands its
adjectival does not mean anything. The local interpretation "Black," is
entirely without merit. The pond is now known as Rockland Lake. It lies
west of the Verdrietig Hoek range, which intervenes between it and the
Hudson. It is sheltered on its northeast shore by the range. The ridge
intervening between it and the Hudson rises 640 feet. It is a beautiful
lake of clear water reposing on a sandy bottom, 160 feet above the level
of the Hudson.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The equivalent Mass. word is _paug,_ "Where water is," or "Place
 of water." (Trumbull.) Quassa-paug or Quas-paug, is the largest lake in
 Woodbury, Ct. Dr. Trumbull failed to detect the derivative of _Quas,_
 but suggested, Kiche, "Great." Probably a satisfactory interpretation
 will be found in _Kussûk,_ "High." (See Quassaick.)


Menisak-cungue, so written in Indian deed to De Hart in 1666, and also
in deed from De Hart to Johannes Minnie in 1695, is written _Amisconge_
on Pownal's map, as the name of a stream in the town of Haverstraw. As
De Hart was the first purchaser of lands at Haverstraw, the name could
not have been from that of a later owner, as locally supposed. Pownal's
orthography suggests that the original was _Ommissak-kontu,_ Mass.,
"Where Alewives or small fishes are abundant." The locative was at the
mouth of the stream at Grassy Point. [FN] Minnie's Falls, a creek so
known, no doubt, took that name from Johannes Minnie. On some maps it is
called Florus' Falls, from Florus Crom, an early settler. An unlocated
place on the stream was called "The Devil's Horse Race."

                          * * * * *

 [FN] _Kontu,_ an abundance verb, is sometimes written _contee,_ easily
 corrupted to _cungue._ Dutch _Congé_ means "Discharge," the tail-race
 of a mill, or a strong, swift current. Minnie's Congé, the tail-race of
 Minnie's mill.


Mahequa and Mawewier are forms of the name of a small stream which
constitutes one of the boundaries of what is known as Welch's Island.
They are from the root _Mawe,_ "Meeting," _Mawewi,_ "Assembly" (Zeisb.),
_i. e._ "Brought together," as "Where paths or streams or boundaries
come together." The reference may have been to the place where the stream
unites with Demarest's Kill, as shown on a map of survey in "History of
Rockland County." Welch's Island was so called from its enclosure by
streams and a marsh. (See Mattaconga and Mahway.)

Skoonnenoghky is written as the name of a hill which formed the southwest
boundmark of a district of country purchased from the Indians by Governor
Dongan in 1685, and patented to Capt. John Evans by him in 1694,
described in the Indian deed as beginning on the Hudson, "At about the
place called the Dancing Chamber, thence south to the north side of the
land called Haverstraw, thence northwest along the hill called
Skoonnenoghky" to the bound of a previous purchase made by Dongan "Called
Meretange pond." (See Pitkiskaker.) The hill was specifically located in
a survey of part of the line of the Evans Patent, by Cadwallader Colden,
in 1722, noted as "Beginning at Stony Point and running over a high hill,
part of which makes the Stony Point, and is called Kunnoghky or
Kunnoghkin." (Cal. N. Y. Land Papers, 162.) The south side of Stony Point
was then accepted as the "North side of the land called Haverstraw." The
hills in immediate proximity, at varying points of compass, are the
Bochberg (Dutch, _Bochelberg,_ "Humpback hill"), and the Donderberg,
neither of which, however, have connection with Stony Point, leaving the
conclusion certain that from the fact that the line had its beginning at
the extreme southeastern limit of the Point on the Hudson, the hill
referred to in the survey must have been that on which the Stony Point
fort of the Revolution was erected, "Part of which hill" certainly "makes
the Stony Point." Colden's form of the name, "Kunnoghky or Kunnoghkin,"
is obviously an equivalent of Dongan's Schoonnenoghky. Both forms are
from the generic root _Gún,_ Lenape (_Qûn,_ Mass.), meaning
"Long"--_Gúnaquot,_ Lenape, "Long, tall, high, extending upwards";
_Qunnúhqui_ (Mass.), "Tall, high, extending upwards"; _Qunnúhqui-ohke_
or _Kunn'oghky,_ "Land extending upwards," high land, gradual ascent.
The name being generic was easily shifted about and so it was that in
adjusting the northwest line of the Evans Patent it came to have
permanent abode as that of the hill now known as Schunnemunk in the town
of Cornwall, Orange County, to the advantage of the proprietors of the
Minisink Patent. [FN] Reference to the old patent line will be met in
other connections.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The patent to Capt. John Evans was granted by Gov. Dongan in 1694,
 and vacated by act of the Colonial Assembly in 1708, approved by the
 Queen in 1708. It included Gov. Dongan's two purchases of 1784-85.
 {_sic_} It  was not surveyed; its southeast, or properly its northwest
 line was  never satisfactorily determined, but was supposed to run from
 Stony  Point to a certain pond called Maretanze in the present town of
 Greenville, Orange County. Following the vacation of the patent in 1708,
 several small patents were granted which were described in general terms
 as a part of the lands which it covered. In order to locate them the
 Surveyor-General of the Province in 1722, propounded an inquiry as to
 the bounds of the original grant; hence the survey by Cadwallader
 Colden. The line then established was called "The New Northwest Line."
 It was substantially the old line from Stony Point to Maretanze Pond
 (now Binnenwater), in Greenville, and cut off a portion of the territory
 which was supposed to have been included in the Wawayanda Patent.
 Another line was projected in 1765-6, by the proprietors of the Minisink
 Patent, running further northeast and the boundmark shifted to a pond
 north of Sam's Point, the name going with it. The transaction formed the
 well-known Minisink Angle, and netted the Minisink proprietors 56,000
 acres of unoccupied lands. (Doc. Hist. N. Y., iii, 986.) Compare Cal.
 N. Y. Land Papers, 164, 168, 171, 172, and Map of Patents in Hist.
 Orange Co., quarto edition.


Reckgawank, of record in 1645 as the name of Haverstraw, appears in
several later forms. Dr. O'Callaghan (Hist. New Neth.) noted:
"Sessegehout, chief of Rewechnong of Haverstraw." In Col. Hist. N. Y.,
"Keseshout [FN-1] chief of Rewechnough, or Haverstraw," "Curruppin,
brother, and representative of the chief of Rumachnanck, alias
Haverstraw." In the treaty of 1645: "Sesekemick and Willem, chiefs of
Tappans and Reckgawank," which Brodhead found converted to "Kumachenack,
or Haverstraw." [FN-2] The original is no doubt from _Rekau,_ "Sand,
gravel," with verb substantive _wi,_ and locative _-ng,_ or _-ink_;
written by Zeisberger, _Lekauwi._ The same word appears in _Rechqua-akie,_
now Rockaway, L. I. The general meaning, with the locative _-nk_ or
_-ink,_ is "At the sandy place," and the reference to the sandy flats,
at Haverstraw, where Sesegehout presumably resided. There is no reason
for placing this clan on Long Island.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] _Sesehout_ seems to have been written to convey an idea of the
 rank of the sachem from the Dutch word _Schout,_ "Sheriff."
 _K'schi-sakima,_ "Chief, principal," or "greatest sachem." In Duchess
 County the latter is written _t'see-saghamaugh._

 [FN-2] Haverstraw is from Dutch _Haverstroo._ "Oat straw," presumably
 so named from the wild oats which grew abundantly on the flats.


Nawasink, Yan Dakah, Caquaney and Aquamack, are entered in the Indian
deed to De Hart as names for lands purchased by him at Haverstraw in
1666. The deed reads: "A piece of land and meadow lying upon Hudson's
River in several parcels, called by the Indians Nawasink, Yan Dakah,
Caquaney, and Aquamack, within the limits of Averstraw, bounded on the
east and north by Hudson's River, on the west by a creek called
Menisakcungue, and on the south by the mountain." The mountain on the
south could have been no other than Verdrietig Hoek, and the limit on the
north the mouth of the creek in the cove formed by Grassy Point, which
was long known as "The further neck." Further than is revealed by the
names the places cannot be certainly identified. Taken in the order in
the deed, _Newasink_ located a place that was "At (or on) a point or
promontory." It is a pure Lenape name. _Yan Dakah_ is probably from _Yu
Undach,_ "On this side," _i. e._ on the side towards the speaker.
_Caquancy_ is so badly corrupted that its derivative is not recognizable.
_Aquamack_ seems to be the same word that we have in Accomack, Va.,
meaning, "On the Other side," or "Other side lands." In deed to Florus
Crom is mentioned "Another parcel of upland and meadow known by the name
of _Ahequerenoy,_ lying north of the brook called Florus Falls and
extending to Stony Point," the south line of which was the north line of
the Haverstraw lands as later understood. The tract was known for years
as "The end place."

Sankapogh, Indian deed to Van Cortlandt, 1683--Sinkapogh, Songepogh,
Tongapogh--is given as the name of a small stream flowing to the Hudson
south of the stream called Assinapink, locally now known as Swamp Kill
and Snake-hole Creek. The stream is the outlet of a pool or spring which
forms a marsh at or near the foot of precipitous rocks. Probably an
equivalent of Natick _Sonkippog,_ "Cool water."

Poplopen's Creek, now so written, the name of the stream flowing to the
Hudson between the sites of the Revolutionary forts Clinton and
Montgomery, south of West Point, and also the name of one of the ponds
of which the stream is the outlet, seems to be from English _Pop-looping_
(Dutch _Loopen_), and to describe the stream as flowing out
quickly--_Pop_, "To issue forth with a quick, sudden movement"; _Looping_,
"To run," to flow, to stream. The flow of the stream was controlled by
the rise and fall of the waters in the ponds on the hills, seven in
number. The outlet of Poplopen Pond is now dammed back to retain a head
of water for milling purposes. It is a curious name. The possessive _'s_
does not belong to the original--Pop-looping Creek.

Assinapink, the name of a small stream of water flowing to the Hudson
from a lake bearing the same name--colloquially _Sinsapink_--known in
Revolutionary history as Bloody Pond--is of record, "A small rivulet of
water called _Assin-napa-ink_" (Cal. N, Y. Land Papers, 99), from
_Assin,_ "stone"; _Napa,_ "lake, pond," or place of water, and _-ink,_
locative, literally, "Place of water at or on the stone." The current
interpretation, "Water from the solid rock," is not specially
inappropriate, as the lake is at the foot of the rocks of Bare Mountain.
At a certain place in the course of the stream a legal description reads:
"A whitewood tree standing near the southerly side of a ridge of rocks,
lying on the south side of a brook there called by the Indians
_Sickbosten_ Kill, and by the Christians Stony Brook." [FN] The Indians
never called the stream _Sickbosten,_ unless they learned that word from
the Dutch, for corrupted Dutch it is. The derivative is _Boos,_ "Wicked,
evil, angry"; _Zich Boos Maken,_ "To grow angry," referring particularly
to the character of the stream in freshets.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Adv. in Newburgh Mirror, June 18, 1798.


Prince's Falls, so called in description of survey of patent to Samuel
Staats, 1712: "Beginning at ye mouth of a small rivulet called by the
Indians Assin-napa-ink, then up the river (Hudson) as it runs, two
hundred chains, which is about four chains north of Prince's Falls,
including a small rocky isle and a small piece of boggy meadow called
John Cantton Huck; also a small slip of land on each side of a fall of
water just below ye meadow at ye said John Cantonhuck." (Cal. N. Y. Land
Papers, 99.) Long known as Buttermilk Falls and more recently as Highland
Falls. In early days the falls were one of the most noted features on
the lower Hudson. They were formed by the discharge over a precipice of
the outlet waters of Bog-meadow Brook. They were called Prince's Falls
in honor of Prince Maurice of Holland. The name was extended to the creek
in the Staats survey--Prince's Kill.

Manahawaghin is of record as the name of what is now known as Iona
Island, in connection with "A certain tract of land on the west side of
Hudson's River, beginning on the south side of a creek called Assinapink,
together with a certain island and parcel of meadow called Manahawaghin,
and by the Christians Salisbury Island." The island lies about one mile
south of directly opposite Anthony's Nose, and is divided from the main
land by a narrow channel or marshy water-course. The tract of land lies
immediately north of the Donderberg; it was the site of the settlement
known as Doodletown in Revolutionary history. The name is probably from
_Mannahatin,_ the indefinite or diminutive form of _Mannahata,_ "The
Island"--literally, "Small island." The last word of the record form is
badly mangled. (See Manhattan.)



[Illustration: Northern Gate of the Highlands]



Manahan, meaning "Island"--indefinite _-an_--is a record name of what is
now known as Constitution Island, the latter title from Fort Constitution
which was erected thereon during the war of the Revolution. The early
Dutch navigators called it Martelaer's Rack Eiland, from Martelaer,
"Martyr," and Rack, a reach or sailing course--"the Martyr's Reach"--from
the baffling winds and currents encountered in passing West Point. The
effort of Judge Benson to convert "Martelaer's" to "Murderer's." and
"Rack" to "Rock"--"the Murderer's Rock"--was unfortunate.

Pollepel Eiland, a small rocky island in the Hudson at the northern
entrance to the Highlands, was given that name by an early Dutch
navigator. It means, literally, "Pot-ladle Island," so called, presumably,
from its fancied resemblance to a Dutch pot-ladle. Jasper Dankers and
Peter Sluyter wrote the name in their Journal in 1679-80, indicating that
the island was then well known by that title. On Van der Donck's map of
1656 the island is named Kaes Eiland. Dutch _Kaas_ (cheese) _Eiland._
Dankers and Sluyter also wrote, "_Boter-berg_ (Butter-hill), because it
is like the rolls of butter which the farmers of Holland take to market."
Read in connection the names are Butter Hill and Cheese Island. The same
writers wrote, "_Hays-berg_ (Hay-hill), because it is like a hay-stack
in Holland," and "_Donder-berg_ (Thunder-hill), so called from the echoes
of thunder peals which culminated there." The latter retains its ancient
Dutch title. It is eminently the Echo Hill of the Highlands. The oldest
record name of any of the hills is _Klinker-berg,_ which is written on
the Carte Figurative of 1614-16 directly opposite a small island and
apparently referred to Butter Hill. It means literally, "Stone Mountain."
The passage between Butter Hill and Break Neck, on the east side of the
river, was called "Wey-gat, or Wind-gate, because the wind often blowed
through it with great force," wrote Dr. Dwight. The surviving name,
however, is _Warragat,_ from Dutch _Warrelgat,_ "Wind-gate." It was at
the northern entrance to this troublesome passage that Hudson anchored
the Half-Moon, September 29th, 1609. Brodhead suggested (Note K, Vol. I)
that Pollepel Island was that known in early Dutch history as Prince's
Island, or Murderer's Creek Island, and that thereon was erected Fort
Wilhelmus, referred to by Wassenaer in 1626. (Doc. Hist. N. Y., iii, 35.)
The evidence is quite clear, however, that the island to which Wassenaer
referred was in the vicinity of Schodac, where there was also a
Murderer's Creek.

Hudson, on his exploration of the river which now bears his name, sailed
into the bay immediately north of Butter Hill, now known as Newburgh Bay,
on the morning of the 15th of September, 1709. After spending several
days in the northern part of the river, he reached Newburgh Bay on his
return voyage in the afternoon of September 29th, and cast anchor, or
as stated in Juet's Journal, "Turned down to the edge of the mountains,
or the northernmost of the mountains, and anchored, because the high
lands hath many points, and a narrow channel, and hath many eddie winds.
So we rode quietly all night." The hill or mountain long known as
Breakneck, on the east side of the river, may be claimed as the
northernmost, which would place his anchorage about midway between
Newburgh and Pollepel Island.

Quassaick, now so written, is of record, _Quasek,_ 1709; "Near to a place
called _Quasaik,_" 1709-10; _Quasseck,_ 1713; "_Quassaick_ Creek upon
Hudson's River," 1714. It was employed to locate the place of settlement
of the Palatine immigrants in 1709--"The Parish of Quassaick," later,
"The Parish of Newburgh." It is now preserved as the name of the creek
which bounds (in part) the city of Newburgh on the south. "Near to a
place called Quasek," indicates that the place of settlement was located
by the name of some other place which was near to it and generally known
by the name. The late Dr. E. B. O'Callaghan read it, in 1856: "From
_Qussuk,_ 'Stone,' and _-ick,_ 'Place where,' literally, 'A place of
stone,'" the presumed reference being to the district through which the
stream flows, which is remarkable for its deposit of glacial bowlders.
The correctness of this interpretation has been questioned on very
tenable grounds. _Qusuk_ is not in the plural number and _-uk_ does not
stand for _-ick._ Eliot wrote: "_Qussuk,_ a rock," and "_Qussukquan-ash,_
rocks." _Qussuk,_ as a substantive simply, would be accepted as the name
of a place called "A rock," by metonymie, "A stone." No other meaning
can be drawn from it. It does not belong to the dialect of the district,
the local terms being _-ápuch,_ "Rock," and _-assin,_ or _-achsûn,_
"Stone." Dr. O'Callaghan's interpretation may safely be rejected. William
R. Gerard writes: "The worst corrupted name that I know of is _Wequaskeg_
or _Wequaskeek,_ meaning, 'At the end of the marsh.' It appears in
innumerable forms--_Weaxashuk, Wickerschriek, Weaquassic,_ etc. I think
that Quassaick, changed from Quasek (1709), is one of these corruptions.
The original word probably referred to some place at the end of a swamp.
The word would easily become Quasekek, Quasek, and Quassaick. The
formative _-ek,_ in words meaning swamp, marsh, etc., was often dropped
by both Dutch and English scribes." This conjecture would seem to locate
the name as that of the end of Big Swamp, nearly five miles distant from
the place of settlement. My conjecture is that the name is from Moh.
_Kussuhkoe,_ meaning "High;" with substantive _Kussuhkohke,_ "High
lands," the place of settlement being described as "Near the Highlands,"
which became the official designation of "The Precinct of the Highlands."
_Kussuhk_ is pretty certainly met in _Cheesek-ook,_ the name of patented
lands in the Highlands, described as "Uplands and meadows;" also in
_Quasigh-ook,_ Columbia County, which is described as "A high place on
a high hill." The Palatine settlers at _Quasek,_ wrote, in 1714, that
their place was "all uplands," a description which will not be disputed
at the present day. (See Cheesekook, Quissichkook, etc.)

Much-Hattoos, a hill so called in petition of William Chambers and
William Sutherland, in 1709, for a tract of land in what is now the town
of New Windsor, and in patent to them in 1712, a boundmark described as
"West by the hill called Much-Hattoes," is apparently from _Match,_
"Evil, bad;" _-adchu,_ "Hill" or mountain, and _-es,_ "Small"--"A small
hill bad," or a small hill that for some reason was not regarded with
favor. [FN] The eastern face of the hill is a rugged wall of gneiss; the
western face slopes gradually to a swamp not far from its base and to a
small lake, the latter now utilized for supplying the city of Newburgh
with water, with a primary outlet through a passage under a spur of the
hill, which the Indians may have regarded as a mysterious or bad place.
In local nomenclature the hill has long been known as Snake Hill, from
the traditionary abundance of rattle-snakes on it, though few have been
seen there in later years.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] "I think your reading of _Muchattoos_ as an orthography of original
 _Matchatchu's,_ is very plausible. I think _Massachusetts_ is the same
 word, plus a locative suffix and English sign of the plural. It was
 formerly spelled in many ways: Mattachusetts, Massutchet, Matetusses,
 etc. Dr. Trumbull read it as standing for _Mass-adchu-set,_ 'At the big
 hills'; but I learn from history that Massachusetts was originally the
 name of a _hillock_ situated in the midst of a salt marsh. It was a
 locality selected by the sachem of his tribe as one of his places of
 residence. He stood in fear of his enemies, the Penobscotts, and this
 hillock, from its situation was a 'bad,' or difficult place to reach.
 So Massachsat for Matsadchuset or Mat-adchu-set plainly means, 'On the
 bad hillock.'" (Wm. R. Gerard.)


Cronomer's Hill and Cronomer's Valley, about three miles west of the city
of Newburgh, take their names from a traditionary Indian called Cronomer,
the location of whose wigwam is said to be still known as "The hut lot."
The name is probably a corruption of the original, which may have been
Dutch Jeronimo.

Murderer's Creek, so called in English records for many years, and by the
Dutch "den Moordenaars' Kil," is entered on map of 1666, "R. Tans Kamer,"
or River of the Dance Chamber, and the point immediately south of its
mouth, "de Bedrieghlyke Hoek" (Dutch, Bedrieglijk), meaning "a deceitful,
fraudulent hook," or corner, cape, or angle. Presumably the Dutch
navigator was deceived by the pleasant appearance of the bay, sailed into
it and found his vessel in the mouth of the Warrelgat. Tradition affirms
in explanation of the Dutch Moordenaars that an early company of traders
entered their vessel in the mouth of the stream; that they were enticed
on shore at Sloop Hill and there murdered. Paulding, in his beautiful
story, "Naoman," related the massacre of a pioneer family at the same
place. The event, however, which probably gave the name to the stream
occurred in August, 1643, when boats passing down the river from Fort
Orange, laden with furs, were attacked by the Indians "above the
Highlands" and "nine Christians, including two women were murdered, and
one woman and two children carried away prisoners," (Doc. Hist. N. Y.,
iv, 12), the narrative locating the occurrence by the name "den
Moordenaars' Kil," _i. e._ the kill from which the attacking party issued
forth or on which the murderers resided. The first appearance of the name
in English records is in a deed to Governor Dongan, in 1685, in which the
lands purchased by him included "the lands of the Murderers' Creek
Indians," the stream being then well known by the name. The present name,
Moodna, was converted to that form, by N. P. Willis from the Dutch
"Moordenaar," by dropping letters, an inexcusable emasculation from a
historic standpoint, but made poetical by his interpretation, "Meeting
of the waters."

Schunnemunk, now so written, the name of a detached hill in the town of
Cornwall, Orange County, appears of record in that connection, first, in
the Wilson and Aske Patent of 1709, in which the tract granted is
described as lying "Between the hills at Scoonemoke." Skoonnemoghky,
Skonanaky, Schunnemock, Schonmack Clove, Schunnemock Hill, are other
forms. In 1750 Schunnamunk appears, and in 1774, on Sauthier's map (1776)
Schunnamank is applied to the range of hills which have been described
as "The High Hills to the west of the Highlands." 'In a legal brief in
the controversy to determine finally the northwest line of the Evans
Patent, the name is written Skonanake, and the claim made that it was the
hill named Skoonnemoghky in the deed from the Indians to Governor Dongan,
in 1685, and therein given as the southeast boundmark of the lands of
"The Murderer's Creek Indians," and, later, the hill along which the
northwest line of the Evans Patent ran, which it certainly was not,
although the name is probably from the same generic. (See Schoonnenoghky.)
The hill forms the west shoulder of Woodbury Valley. It is a somewhat
remarkable elevation in geological formation and bears on its summit many
glacial scratches. On its north spur stood the castle of Maringoman, one
of the grantors of the deed to Governor Dongan, and who later removed to
the north side of the Otter Kill where his wigwam became a boundmark in
two patents. [FN] The traditionary word "castle," in early days of Indian
history, was employed as the equivalent of town, whether palisaded or
not. In this case we may read the name, "Maringoman's Town," which may or
may not have been palisaded. It seems to have been the seat of the
"Murderer's Creek Indians." The burial ground of the clan is marked on a
map of the Wilson and Aske Patent, and has been located by Surveyor Fred
J. McKnight (1898) on the north side of the Cornwall and Monroe line and
very near the present road past the Houghton farm, near which the castle
stood. The later "cabin" of the early sachem is plainly located.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Van Dam Patent (1709) and Mompesson Patent (1709-12). The late Hon.
 George W. Tuthill wrote me in 1858: "On the northwestern bank of
 Murderers' Creek, about half a mile below Washingtonville, stands the
 dwelling-house of Henry Page (a colored man), said to be the site of
 Maringoman's wigman, referred to in the Van Dam Patent of 1709. The
 southwesterly corner of that patent is in a southwesterly direction from
 said Page's house."

 In the controversy in regard to the northwest line of the Evans Patent,
 one of the counsel said: "It is also remarkable that the Murderers'
 Creek extends to the hill Skonanaky, and that the Indian, Maringoman,
 who sold the lands, did live on the south side of Murderers' Creek,
 opposite the house where John McLean now (1756) dwells, near the said
 hill, and also lived on the north bank of Murderers' Creek, where Colonel
 Mathews lives. The first station of his boundaries is a stone set in the
 ground at Maringoman's castle."


Winegtekonck, 1709--_Wenighkonck,_ 1726; _Wienackonck,_ 1739--is quoted
as the name of what is now known as Woodcock Mountain, in the town of
Blooming-Grove, It is not so connected, however, in the record of 1709,
which reads: "A certain tract of land by the Indians called
_Wineghtek-onck_ and parts adjacent, lying on both sides of Murderers'
Kill" (Cal. N. Y. Land Papers, 91), in which connection it seems to be
another form of Mahican _Wanun-ketukok,_ "At the winding of the river"--"A
bend-of-the-river-place." Presumably the reference is to a place where
the stream bends in the vicinity of the hill. The name appears in an
abstract of an Indian deed to Sir Henry Ashurst, in 1709, for a tract of
land of about sixteen square miles. The purchase was not patented, the
place being included in the Governor Dongan purchase of 1685, and in the
Evans Patent.

Sugar Loaf, the name of a conical hill in the town of Chester, Orange
County, is not an Indian name of course, but it enters into an enumeration
of Indian places, as in its vicinity were found by Charles Clinton, in
his survey of the Cheesec-ock Patent in 1738, the unmistakable evidences
of the site of an Indian village, then probably not long abandoned, and
Mr. Eager (Hist. Orange Co.) quoted evidences showing that on a farm then
(1846) owned by Jonathan Archer, was an Indian burying ground, the marks
of which were still distinct prior to the Revolution.

Runbolt's Run, a spring and creek in the town of Goshen, are said to have
taken that name from Rombout, one of the Indian grantors of the Wawayanda
tract. It is probable, however, that the name is a corruption of Dutch
_Rondbocht,_ meaning, "A tortuous pool, puddle, marsh," at or near which
the chief may have resided. _Rombout_ (Dutch) means "Bull-fly." It could
hardly have been the name of a run of water.

Mistucky, the name of a small stream in the town of Warwick, has lost
some of its letters. _Mishquawtucke_ (Nar.), would read, "Place of red
cedars."

Pochuck, given as the name of "A wild, rugged and romantic region" in
Sussex County, N. J., to a creek near Goshen, and, modernly, to a place
in Newburgh lying under the shadow of Muchhattoes Hill, is no doubt from
_Putscheck_ (Len.), "A corner or repress," a retired or "out-of-the-way
place." Eliot wrote _Poochag,_ in the Natick dialect, and Zeisberger, in
the Minsi-Lenape, _Puts-cheek,_ which is certainly heard in Pochuck.

Chouckhass, one of the Indian grantors of the Wawayanda tract, left his
name to what is now called Chouck's Hill, in the town of Warwick. The
land on which he lived and in which he was buried came into possession
of Daniel Burt, an early settler, who gave decent sepulture to the bones
of the chief. [FN]

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The traditional places of residence of several of the sachems who
 signed the Wawayanda deed is stated by a writer in "Magazine of American
 History," and may be repeated on that authority, viz: "Oshaquememus,
 chief of a village, near the point where the Beaver-dam Brook empties
 into Murderers' Creek near Campbell Hall; Moshopuck, on the flats now
 known as Haverstraw; Ariwimack, chief, on the Wallkill, extending from
 Goshen to Shawongunk; Guliapaw, chief of a clan residing near Long Pond
 (Greenwood Lake), within fifty rods of the north end of the pond;
 Rapingonick died about 1730 at the Delaware Water-Gap." The names given
 by the writer do not include all the signers of the deed. One of the
 unnamed grantors was _Claus,_ so called from _Klaas_ (Dutch), "A tall
 ninny"; an impertinent, silly fellow; a ninny-jack. The name may have
 accurately described the personality of the Indian.


Jogee Hill, in the town of Minisink, takes its name from and preserves
the place of residence of Keghekapowell, alias Jokhem (Dutch Jockem for
Joachim), one of the grantors of lands to Governor Dongan in 1684. The
first word of his Indian name, _Keghe,_ stands for _Keche,_ "Chief,
principal, greatest," and defined his rank as principal sachem. The
canton which he ruled was of considerable number. He remained in
occupation of the hill long after his associates had departed.

Wawayanda, 1702--_Wawayanda_ or _Wocrawin,_ 1702; _Wawayunda,_ 1722-23;
_Wiwanda, Wowando,_ Index Col. Hist. N. Y.--the first form, one of the
most familiar names in Orange County, is preserved as that of a town, a
stream of water, and of a large district of country known as the
Wawayanda Patent, in which latter connection it appears of record, first,
in 1702, in a petition of Dr. Samuel Staats, of Albany, and others, for
license to purchase "A tract of land called Wawayanda, in the county of
Ulster, containing by estimation about five thousand acres, more or less,
lying about thirty miles backward in the woods from Hudson's River." (Land
Papers, 56.) In February of the same year the parties filed a second
petition for license to "purchase five thousand acres adjoining thereto,
as the petitioners had learned that their first purchase, 'called
Wawayanda' was 'altogether a swamp and not worth anything.'" In November
of the same year, having made the additional purchase, the parties asked
for a patent for ten thousand acres "Lying at Wawayanda or Woerawin."
Meanwhile Dr. John Bridges and Company, of New York, purchased under
license and later received patent for "certain tracts and parcels of
vacant lands in the county of Orange, called Wawayanda, and some other
small tracts and parcels of lands," and succeeded in including in their
patent the lands which had previously been purchased by Dr. Staats.
Specifically the tract called Wawayanda or Woerawin was never located,
nor were the several "certain tracts of land called Wawayanda" purchased
by Dr. Bridges. The former learned in a short time, however, that his
purchase was not "altogether a swamp," although it may have included or
adjoined one, and the latter found that his purchase included a number of
pieces of very fine lands and a number of swamps, and especially the
district known as the Drowned Lands, covering some 50,000 acres, in which
were several elevations called islands, now mainly obliterated by drainage
and traversed by turnpikes and railroads. Several water-courses were
there also, notably the stream now known as the Wallkill, and that known
as the Wawayanda or Warwick Creek, a stream remarkable for its tortuous
course.

What and where was Wawayanda? The early settlers on the patent seem to
have been able to answer. Mr. Samuel Vantz, who then had been on the
patent for fifty-five years, gave testimony in 1785, that Wawayanda was
"Within a musket-shot of where DeKay lived." The reference was to the
homestead house of Col. Thomas DeKay, who was then dead since 1758. The
foundation of the house remains and its site is well known. In adjusting
the boundary line between New York and New Jersey it was cut off from
Orange County and is now in Vernon, New Jersey, where it is still known
as the "Wawayanda Homestead." Within a musket-shot of the site of the
ancient dwelling flows Wawayanda Creek, and with the exception of the
meadows through which it flows in a remarkably sinuous course, is the
only object in proximity to the place where DeKay lived, except the
meadow and the valley in which it flows. The locative of the name at that
point seems to be established with reasonable certainty as well as the
object to which it was applied--the creek.

The meaning of the name remains to be considered. Its first two syllables
are surely from the root _Wai_ or _Wae;_ iterative and frequentive
_Wawai,_ or _Waway,_ meaning "Winding around many times." It is a generic
combination met in several forms--_Wawau,_ Lenape; _Wohwayen,_ Moh.; [FN]
_Wawai,_ Shawano; _Wawy, Wawi, Wawei,_ etc., on the North-central-Hudson,
as in _Waweiqate-pek-ook,_ Greene County, and _Wawayachton-ock,_ Dutchess
County. Dr. Albert S. Gatschet, of the Bureau of Ethnology, wrote me:
"_Wawayanda_, as a name formed by syllabic reduplication, presupposes a
simple form, _Wayanda,_ 'Winding around.' The reduplication is _Wawai,_
or _Waway-anda,_ 'many' or 'several' windings, as a complex of river
bends." As the name stands it is a participial or verbal noun. _Waway,_
"Winding around many times";--_-anda,_ "action, motion" (radical _-an,_
"to move, to go"), and, inferentially, the place where the action of the
verb is performed, as in _Guttanda,_ "Taste it," the action of the throat
in tasting being referred to, and in _Popachándamen,_ "To beat; to
strike." As the verb termination of _Waway,_ "Round about many times,"
it is entirely proper. The uniformity of the orthography leaves little
room for presuming that any other word was used by the grantors, or that
any letters were lost or dropped by the scribe in recording. It stands
simply as the name of an object without telling what that object was, but
what was it that could have had action, motion--that had many
windings--except Wawayanda Creek?

                          * * * * *

 [FN] "_Wohwayen_ (Moh.), where the brook 'winds about,' turning to the
 west and then to the east." (Trumbull.) _Wowoaushin,_ "It winds about."
 (Eliot.) _Woweeyouchwan._ "It flows circuitously, winds about." (Ib.)


Mr. Ralph Wisner, of Florida, Orange County, recently reproduced in the
Warwick Advertiser, an affidavit made by Adam Wisner, May 19th, 1785,
at a hearing in Chester, in the contention to determine the boundary line
of the Cheesec-ock Patent, in which he stated that he was 86 years old
on the 15th of April past; that he had lived on the Wawayanda Patent
since 1715; that he "learned the Indian language" when he was a young
man; that the Indians "had told him that Wawayanda signified 'the
egg-shape,' or shape of an egg." Adam Wisner was an interpreter of the
local Indian dialect; he is met as such in records. His interpretations,
as were those of other interpreters, were mainly based on signs, motions,
objects. _Waway,_ "Winding about many times," would describe the lines
of an egg, but it is doubtful if the suffix, _-anda,_ had the meaning of
"shape."

The familiar reading of Wawayanda, "Away-over-yonder," is a word-play,
like Irving's "Manhattan, Man-with-a-hat-on." Dr. Schoolcraft's
interpretation, "Our homes or places of dwelling," quoted in "History of
Orange County," is pronounced by competent authority to be "Dialectically
and grammatically untenable." It has poetic merit, but nothing more.
Schoolcraft borrowed it from Gallatin.

Woerawin, given by Dr. Staats as the name of his second purchase, is also
a verbal noun. By dialectic exchange of _l_ for _r_ and giving to the
Dutch _æ_ its English equivalent _ü_ as in bull, it is probably from
the root _Wul,_ "Good, fine, handsome," etc., with the verbal termination
_-wi_ (Chippeway _-win_), indicating "objective existence," hence
"place," a most appropriate description for many places in the Wawayanda
or Warwick Valley.

Monhagen, the name of a stream in the town of Wallkill, is, if Indian as
claimed, an equivalent of _Monheagan,_ from _Maingan,_ "A wolf," the
totem of the Mohegans of Connecticut. The name, however, has the sound of
Monagan--correctly, _Monaghan,_ the name of a county in Ireland, and quite
an extensive family name in Orange County.

Long-house, Wawayanda, and Pochuck are local names for what may be
regarded as one and the same stream. It rises in the Drowned Lands, in
New Jersey, where it is known as Long-house Creek; flows north until it
receives the outlet of Wickham's Pond, in Warwick, Orange County, and
from thence the united streams form the Wawayanda or Warwick Creek, which
flows southwesterly for some miles into New Jersey and falls into Pochuck
Creek, which approaches from the northwest, and from thence the flow is
northwest into Orange County again to a junction with the Wallkill,
which, rising in Pine Swamp, Sparta, N. J., flows north and forms the
main drainage channel of the Drowned Lands. In addition to its general
course Wawayanda Creek is especially sinuous in the New Milford and
Sandfordville districts of Warwick, the bends multiplying at short
distances, and also in the vicinity of the De Kay homestead in Vernon.
In Warwick the stream has been known as "Wandering River" for many years.
The patented lands are on this stream. Its name, Long-house Creek, was,
no doubt, from one of the peculiar dwellings constructed by the Indians
known as a Long House, [FN] which probably stood on or near the stream,
and was occupied by the clan who sold the lands. _Pochuck_ is from a
generic meaning "A recess or corner." It is met in several places. (See
Wawayanda and Pochuck.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The Indian Long House was from fifty to six hundred and fifty feet
 in length by twenty feet in width, the length depending upon the number
 of persons or families to be accommodated, each family having its own
 fire. They were formed by saplings set in the ground, the tops bent
 together and the whole covered with bark. The Five Nations compared
 their confederacy to a long house reaching, figuratively, from Hudson's
 River to Lake Erie.


Gentge-kamike, "A field appropriated for holding dances," may reasonably
have been the Indian name of the plateau adjoining the rocky point, at
the head of Newburgh Bay, which, from very early times, has been known
as _The Dans Kamer_ (Dance Chamber), a designation which appears of
record first in a Journal by David Pietersen de Vries of a trip made by
him in his sloop from Fort Amsterdam to Fort Orange, in 1639, who wrote,
under date of April 15: "At night came by the Dans Kamer, where there
was a party of Indians, who were very riotous, seeking only mischief;
so we were on our guard." Obviously the place was then as well known as
a landmark as was Esopus (Kingston), and may safely be claimed as having
received its Dutch name from the earliest Dutch navigators, from whom it
has been handed down not only as "The Dans Kamer," but as "t' Duivel's
Dans Kamer," the latter presumably designative of the fearful orgies
which were held there familiarly known as "Devil worship." During the
Esopus War of 1663, Lieut. Couwenhoven, who was lying with his sloop
opposite the Dans Kamer, wrote, under date of August 14th, that "the
Indians thereabout on the river side" made "a great uproar every night,
firing guns and Kintecaying, so that the woods rang again." There can be
no doubt from the records that the plateau was an established place for
holding the many dances of the Indians. The word _Kinte_ is a form of
_Géntge_ (Zeisb.), meaning "dance." Its root is _Kanti,_ a verbal,
meaning "To sing." _Géntgeen,_ "To dance" (Zeisb.), _Gent' Keh'n_ (Heck.),
comes down in the local Dutch records _Kinticka, Kinte-Kaye, Kintecaw,
Kintekaying_ (dancing), and has found a resting place in the English word
_Canticoy,_ "A social dance." Dancing was eminently a feature among the
Indians. They had their war dances, their festival dances, their social
dances, etc. As a rule, their social dances were pleasant affairs. Rev.
Heckewelder wrote that he would prefer being present at a social Kintecoy
for a full hour, than a few minutes only at such dances as he had
witnessed in country taverns among white people. "Feast days," wrote
Van der Donck in 1656, "are concluded by old and middle aged men with
smoking; by the young with a Kintecaw, singing and dancing." Every Indian
captive doomed to death, asked and was granted the privilege of singing
and dancing his Kintekaye, or death song. War dances were riotous; the
scenes of actual battle were enacted. The religious dances and rites were
so wonderful that even the missionaries shrank from them, and the English
government forbade their being held within one hundred miles of European
settlements. The holding of a war dance was equivalent to opening a
recruiting station, men only attending and if participating in the dance
expressed thereby their readiness to enter upon the war. It was probably
one of these Kantecoys that Couwenhoven witnessed in 1663.

There were two dancing fields here--so specified in deed--the "Large Dans
Kamer" and the "Little Dans Kamer," the latter a limited plateau on the
point and the former the large plateau now occupied in part by the site
of the Armstrong House. The Little Dans Kamer is now practically
destroyed by the cut on the West-shore Railroad. 'Sufficient of the Large
Dans Kamer remains to evidence its natural adaptation for the purposes
to which the Indians assigned it. Paths lead to the place from all
directions. Negotiations for the exchange of prisoners held by the Esopus
Indians were conducted there, and there the Esopus Indians had direct
connection with the castle of the Wappingers on the east side of the
Hudson. There are few places on the Hudson more directly associated with
Indian customs and history than the Dans Kamer.

Arackook, Kachawaweek, and Oghgotacton are record but unlocated names of
places on the east side of the Wallkill, by some presumed to have been
in the vicinity of Walden, Orange County, from the description: "Beginning
at a fall called Arackook and running thence northwesterly on the east
side of Paltz Creek until it comes to Kachawaweek." The petitioner for
the tract was Robert Sanders, a noted interpreter, who renewed his
petition in 1702, calling the tract Oghgotacton, and presented a claim
to title from a chief called Corporwin, as the representative of his
brother Punguanis, "Who had been ten years gone to the Ottowawas." He
again gave the description, "Beginning at the fall called Arackook," but
there is no trace of the location of the patent in the vicinity of
Walden.

Hashdisch was quoted by the late John W. Hasbrouck, of Kingston, as the
name of what has long been known as "The High Falls of the Wallkill" at
Walden. Authority not stated, but presumably met by Mr. Hasbrouck in
local records. It may be from _Ashp, Hesp,_ etc., "High," and _-ish,_
derogative. The falls descend in cascades and rapids about eighty feet
at an angle of forty-five degrees. Though their primary appearance has
been marred by dams and mills, they are still impressive in freshet
seasons.

Twischsawkin is quoted as the name of the Wallkill at some place in New
Jersey. On Sauthier's map it stands where two small ponds are represented
and seems to have reference to the outlet. _Twisch_ may be an equivalent
of _Tisch,_ "Strong," and _Sawkin_ may be an equivalent of Heckewelder's
_Saucon,_ "Outlet," or mouth of a river, pond, etc. Wallkill, the name
of the stream as now written, is an Anglicism of Dutch _Waal,_ "Haven,
gulf, depth," etc., and _Kil,_ "Channel" or water-course. It is the name
of an arm of the Rhine in the Netherlands, and was transferred here by
the Huguenots who located in New Paltz. (See Wawayanda.)

Shawangunk, the name of a town, a stream of water, and a range of hills
in Ulster County, was that of a specific place from which it was
extended. It is of record in many orthographies, the first in 1684, of
a place called _Chauwanghungh,_ [FN-1] in deed from the Indians to
Governor Dongan, in the same year, _Chawangon,_ [FN-2] and _Chanwangung_
in 1686, [FN-3] later forms running to variants of _Shawangunk._ The
locative is made specific in a grant to Thomas Lloyd in 1687; [FN-4] in
a grant to Severeign Tenhout in 1702, [FN-5] and in a description in
1709, "Adjoining Shawangung, Nescotack and the Palze." [FN-6] In several
other patent descriptions the locative is further identified by "near to"
or "adjoining," and finally (1723) by "near the village of Showangunck,"
at which time the "village" consisted of the dwellings of Thomas Lloyd,
on the north side of Shawangunk Kill; Severeign Tenhout on the south
side; and Jacobus Bruyn, Benjamin Smedes, and others, with a mill, at and
around what was known later as the village of Tuthiltown. In 1744,
Jacobus Bruyn was the owner of the Lloyd tract. [FN-7] The distribution
of the name over the district as a general locative is distinctly
traceable from this center. It was never the name of the mountain, nor
of the stream, and it should be distinctly understood that it does not
appear in Kregier's Journal of the Second Esopus War, nor in any record
prior to 1684, and could not have been that of any place other than that
distinctly named in Governor Dongan's deed and in Lloyd's Patent.

Topographically, the tract was at and on the side of a hill running north
from the fiats on the stream to a point of which Nescotack was the
summit, the Lloyd grant lying in part on the hill-side and in part on the
low lands on the stream. The mountain is eight miles distant. Without
knowledge of the precise location of the name several interpretations of
it have been made, generally from _Shawan,_ "South"--South Mountain,
South Water, South Place. [FN-8] The latter is possible, _i. e._ a place
lying south of Nescotack, as in the sentence: "Schawangung, Nescotack,
and the Paltz." From the topography of the locative, however, Mr. William
R. Gerard suggests that the derivatives are _Scha_ (or _Shaw_), "Side,"
_-ong,_ "hill," and _-unk,_ locative, the combination reading, "At (or
on) the hill-side." [FN-9] This reading is literally sustained by the
locative.

The name is of especial interest from its association with the Dutch and
Indian War of 1663, although not mentioned in Kregier's narrative of the
destruction of the Indian palisaded village called "New Fort," and later
Shawongunk Fort. The narrative is very complete in colonial records.
[FN-10] The village or fort was not as large as that called Kahanksan,
which had previously been destroyed. It was composed of ten huts,
probably capable of accommodating two or three hundred people. The
palisade around them formed "a perfect square," on the brow of a tract
of table-land on the bank of Shawongunk Kill. Since first settlement the
location has been known as "New Fort." It is on the east side of the
stream about three miles west of the village of Wallkill. [FN-11] In the
treaty of 1664 the site and the fields around it were conceded, with
other lands, to the Dutch, by the Indians, as having been "conquered by
the sword," but were subsequently included (1684) in the purchase by
Governor Dongan. Later were included in the patent to Capt. John Evans,
and was later covered by one of the smaller patents into which the Evans
Patent was divided. When the Dutch troops left it it was a terrible
picture of desolation. The huts had been burned, the bodies of the
Indians who had been killed and thrown into the corn-pits had been
unearthed by wolves and their skeletons left to bleach on the plain, with
here and there the half eaten body of a child. For years it was a fable
told to children that the place was haunted by the ghosts of the slain,
and even now the timid feel a peculiar sensation, when visiting the site,
whenever a strange cry breaks on the ear, and the assurance that it is
real comes with gratefulness in the shouts of the harvesters in the
nearby fields. It is a place full of history, full of poetry, full of
the footprints of the aboriginal lords, "Further down the creek," says
the narrative, "several large wigwams stood, which we also burned, and
divers maize fields which we also destroyed." On the sites of some of
these wigwams fine specimens of Indian pottery and stone vessels and
implements have been found, as well as many arrow-points of flint.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] "Land lying about six or seven miles beyond ye Town where ye
 Walloons dwell, upon ye same creek; ye name of ye place is Chauwanghungh
 and Nescotack, two small parcels of land lying together." (N. Y. Land
 Papers, 29, 30.)

 [FN-2] "Comprehending all those lands, meadows and woods called
 Nescotack, Chawangon, Memorasink, Kakogh, Getawanuck and Ghittatawah."
 (Deed to Gov. Dongan.)

 [FN-3] "Beginning on the east side of the river (now Wallkill), and at
 the south end of a small island in the river, at the mouth of the river
 Chauwangung, in the County of Ulster, laid out for James Graham and John
 Delaval." (N. Y. Land Papers, 38.)

 [FN-4] "Description of a survey of 410 acres of land, called by the
 Indian name Chauwangung, laid out for Thomas Lloyd." (N. Y. Land Papers,
 44.)

 [FN-5] N. Y. Land Papers, 60.

 [FN-6] Ib. 169. Other early forms are Shawongunk (1685), Shawongonck
 (1709), Shawongunge (1712).

 [FN-7] From Jacobus Bruyn came the ancient hamlet still known as
 Bruynswick. He erected a stone mansion on the tract, in the front wall
 of which was cut on a marble tablet, "Jacobus Bruyn. 1724." The house
 was destroyed by fire in 1870 (about), and a frame dwelling erected on
 its old foundation. It is about half-way between Bruynswick and
 Tuthilltown; owned later by John V. McKinstry. The location is certain
 from the will of Jacobus Bruyn in 1744.

 [FN-8] The most worthless interpretation is that in Spofford's Gazeteer
 and copied by Mather in his Geological Survey: "_Shawen,_ in the Mohegan
 language, means 'White,' also 'Salt.' and _Gunk,_ 'A large pile of
 rocks,' hence 'White Rocks' or mountain." The trouble with it is that
 there is no such word as _Shawen,_ meaning "White" in any Algonquian
 dialect, and no such word as _Gunk,_ meaning "Rocks."

 [FN-9] The monosyllable _Shaw_ or _Schaw,_ radical _Scha,_ means "Side,
 edge, border, shore," etc. _Schauwunuppéque,_ "On the shore of the
 lake." _Enda-tacht-schawûnge,_ "At the narrows where the hill comes
 close to the river." (Heck.) _Schajawonge,_ "Hill-side" (Zeisb.), from
 which _Schawong-unk,_ "On the hill-side," or at the side of the hill,
 the precise bound of the name cannot be stated.

 [FN-10] Doc. Hist. N. Y., iv, 71, 72, _et. seq._ Col. Hist. N. Y.,
 xiii, 272, 326.

 [FN-11] Authorities quoted and paper by Rev. Charles Scott, D. D., in
 "Proceedings Ulster Co. Hist. Soc."


Memorasink, Kahogh, Gatawanuk, and Ghittatawagh, names handed down in the
Indian deed to Governor Dongan in 1684, have no other record, nor were
they ever specifically located. The lands conveyed to him extended from
the Shawangunk range to the Hudson, bounded on the north by the line of
the Paltz Patent, and south by a line drawn from about the Dans Kamer.
_Ghittatawagh_ is probably from _Kitchi,_ "Great, strong," etc., and
_Towatawik,_ "Wilderness"--the great wilderness, or uninhabited district.
_Gatawanuk_ seems to be from _Kitchi,_ "Strong," _-awan,_ impersonal verb
termination, and _-uk,_ locative, and to describe a place on a strong
current or flowing stream. The same name seems to appear in Kitchawan,
now Croton River. It may have located lands on the Wallkill.

Nescotack, a certain place so called in the Dongan deed of 1684, is
referred to in connection with Shawongunk. It was granted by patent to
Jacob Rutsen and described as "A tract of land by the Indians called
Nescotack and by the Christians Guilford." (N. Y. Land Papers, 29, 30.)
Guilford was known for many years as Guilford Church, immediately west
of Shawongunk. The actual location of the name, however, is claimed for
a hamlet now called Libertyville, further north, which was long known as
Nescotack. The district is an extended ridge which rises gradually from
the Shawongunk River-bottoms on the east and falls off on the west more
abruptly. The name, probably, describes this ridge as "High lands," an
equivalent of _Esquatak_ and _Eskwatack_ on the Upper Hudson; _Ashpotag,_
Mass., and Westchester Co. _Esp, Hesp, Ishp, Hesko, Nesco,_ etc., are
record orthographies. (See Schodac and Shawongunk.)

Wishauwemis, a place-name in Shawongunk, was translated by Rev. Dr.
Scott, "The place of beeches," from _Schauwemi,_ "Beech wood"; but seems
to be an equivalent of Moh. _Wesauwemisk,_ a species of oak with yellow
bark used for dyeing. _Wisaminschi,_ "Yellow-wood tree." (Zeisb.)

Wickquatennhonck, a place so called in patent to Jacobus Bruyn and Benj.
Smedes, 1709, is described as "Land lying near a small hill called, in
ye Indian tongue, Wickqutenhonck," in another paper Wickquatennhonck,
"Land lying near the end of the hill." The name means, "At the end of
the hill," from _Wequa,_ "End of"; _-ateune_ (_-achtenne,_ Zeisb.),
"hill," and _-unk,_ "at." The location was near the end of what is still
known as the Hoogte-berg (Hooge-berg, Dutch), a range of hills, where
the proprietors located dwellings which remained many years.

Wanaksink, a region of meadow and maize land in the Shawongunk district,
was translated by Dr. Scott from _Winachk,_ "Sassafras" (Zeisb.); but
_Wanachk_ may and probably does stand for _Wonachk,_ "The tip or
extremity of anything," and _-sing_ means "Near," or less than. A piece
of land that was near the end of a certain place or piece of land. It is
not the word that is met in Wynogkee.

Maschabeneer, Masseks, Maskack, Massekex, a certain tract or tracts of
land in the present town of Shawongunk, appear in a description of
survey, Dec. 10, 1701, of seven hundred and ten acres "at a place called
_Maschabeneer Shawengonck,_" laid out for Mathias Mott, accompanied by an
affidavit by Jacob Rutsen concerning the purchase of the same from the
Indians. At a previous date (Sept. 22) Mott asked for a patent for four
hundred acres "at a place called Shawungunk," which was "given him when
a child by the Indians." Whether the two tracts were the same or not does
not appear; but in 1702, June 10, Severeyn Tenhout remonstrated against
granting to Mott the land which he had petitioned for, and accompanied
his remonstrance by an extract from the minutes of the Court at Kingston,
in 1693, granting the land to himself. He asked for a patent and gave
the name of the tract "Called by the Indians _Masseecks,_ near
Shawengonck," _i. e._ near the certain tract called Shawongunk which had
been granted to Thomas Lloyd. He received a patent. In 1709, Mott
petitioned "in relation to a certain tract of land upon Showangonck
River" which had been granted to Tenhout, asking that the "same be so
divided" that he (Mott) should "have a proportion of the good land upon
the said river"--obviously a section of low land or meadow, described by
the name of a place thereon called _Maskeék_ (Zeisb.), meaning "Swamp,
bog"; _Maskeht_ (Eliot), "Grass." The radical is _ask,_ "green, raw,
immature." The suffix _-eghs_ represents an intensive form of the
guttural formative, which the German missionaries softened to _-ech_ and
_-ck,_ and the English to _-sh,_ and is frequently met in _X._ Heckewelder
wrote that the original sound was that of the Greek X, hence Maskex and
x in Coxsackie. _Maschabeneer,_ the name given by Mott, is not
satisfactorily translatable.

Pitkiskaker and Aioskawasting appear in deed from the Esopus Indians to
Governor Dongan, in 1684, as the names of divisions of what are now
known as the Shawongunk Mountains south of Mohunk or Paltz Point. The
deed description reads: "Extending from the Paltz," _i. e._ from the
southeast boundmark of the Paltz Patent on the Hudson, now known as Blue
Point (see Magaat-Ramis), south "along the river to the lands of the
Indians at Murderers' Kill, thence west to the foot of the high hills
called Pitkiskaker and Aioskawasting, thence southwesterly all along the
said hills and the river called Peakadasink to a water-pond lying upon
said hills called Meretange." [FN-1] Apparently the general boundaries
were the line of the Paltz Patent on the north, the Hudson on the east,
a line from "about the Dancing Chamber" on the Hudson to Sam's Point on
the Shawongunk range on the southwest, and on the west by that range and
the river Peakadasank. The Peakadasank is now known as Shawangunk Kill.
The pond "called Meretange," is claimed by some authorities, as that now
known as Binnen-water in the town of Mount Hope, Orange County. On
Sauthier's map it is located on the southern division of the range noted
as "Alaskayering Mts.," and represented as the head of Shawongunk Kill.
The same distinction is claimed for Meretange or Peakadasank Swamp in
the town of Greenville, Orange County. A third Maratanza Pond is located
a short distance west of Sam's Point. The name of the hill has been
changed from _Aioskawasting_ to _Awosting_ as the name of a lake and a
waterfall about four miles north of Sam's Point, and translated from
_Awoss_ (Lenape), "Beyond," "On the other side," and claimed to have been
originally applied to a crossing-place in the depression north of Sam's
Point, neither of which interpretations is tenable. The prefix, _Aioska,_
cannot be dropped and the name have a meaning, and the adjectival,
_Awoss,_ cannot be used as a substantive and followed by the locative
_-ing,_ "at, on," etc. _Awoss_ means "Beyond," surely, but must be
followed by a substantive telling what it is that is "beyond." The
particular features of the Shawongunk range covered by the boundary line
of the deed are "The Traps," a cleft which divides the range a short
distance south of Mohunk, and Sam's Point, [FN-2] about nine miles south
of Mohunk. The latter stands out very conspicuously, its general surface
covered by perpendicular rocks from one hundred to two hundred and fifty
feet high, the point itself crowned by a wall of rock which rises 2200
feet above the valley below.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] Meretange, Maretange, or Maratanza, is from Old English _Mere,_
 "A pond or pool," and _Tanze,_ "Sharp" or offensive to the taste. The
 name was transferred to this pond from the pond first bearing it in the
 town of Greenville, Orange County, in changing the northwest line of
 the Evans Patent. (See Peakadasank.) The pond is about a mile in
 circumference and is lined with cranberry bushes and other shrubbery,
 but the water is clear and sweet. It lies about three-quarters of a
 mile west of Sam's Point. Long Pond, lying about four miles north of
 Maratanza, is now called Awosting Lake. It is about two miles long by
 possibly one-quarter of a mile wide and lies in a clove or cleft of the
 hills. Its outlet was called by the Dutch Verkerde Kil, now changed to
 Awosting. About one mile further north lies "The Great Salt Pond," so
 called in records of the town of Shawongunk. It is now called Lake
 Minnewaska, a name introduced from the Chippeway dialect, said to mean
 "Colored water," which has been changed to "Frozen water." The lake is
 particularly described as being "Set into the hills like a bowl." It
 has an altitude of 1,600 feet and a depth of seventy to ninety feet of
 water of crystal clearness through which the pebbly bottom can be seen.
 The fourth pond is that known as Lake Mohonk.

 [FN-2] Sam's Point is in the town of Wawarsing, about seven miles south
 of the village of Ellenville and about nine miles south of Mohunk or
 Paltz Point. It is the highest point on the Shawongunk range in New York
 State. Its name is from Samuel Gonsaulus, who owned the tract.
 Gertruyd's Nose, the name of another point, was so called from the
 fancied resemblance of its shadow to the nose of Mrs. Gertrude, wife of
 Jacobus Bruyn, who owned the tract. The pass, cleft or clove known as
 "The Traps," was so called from the supposed character of the rock which
 it divides. The rock, however, is not Trappean. The pass is 650 feet
 wide and runs through the entire range. Its sides present the appearance
 of the hill having slipped apart.


Peakadasank, so written in Indian deed to Governor Dongan in
1684--_Pachanasinck_ in patent to Jacob Bruyn, 1719; _Peckanasinck,
Pachanassinck,_ etc.--is given as the name of a stream bounding a tract
of land, the Dongan deed description reading: "Thence southwesterly all
along said hills and the river Peakadasank to a water-pond lying on said
hills called Meretange." The name is preserved in two streams known as
the Big and the Little Pachanasink, in Orange County, and in Ulster
County as the "Pachanasink District," covering the south part of the town
of Shawongunk. The Big Pachanasink is now known as Shawongunk Kill. In
1719, Nov. 26, a certain tract of land "called Pachanasink" was granted
to Jacobus Bruyn and described in survey as "on the north side of
Shawongunck Creek, beginning where the Verkerde Kill [FN] flows into
said river," indicating locative of the name at the Verkerde Branch. In
a brief submitted in the boundary contention, it is said that the line
of the Dongan purchase ran "along the foot of the hills from a place
called Pachanasink, where the Indians who sold the land had a large
village and place," and from thence "to the head of the said river, and
no where else the said river is called by that name." The evidence is
cumulative that the name was that of the dominant feature of the district,
from which it was transferred to the stream. It is a district strewn
with masses of conglomerate rocks thrown off from the hills and
precipitous cliffs. The two forms of the name, Peakadasank (1684) and
Pachanassink (1717), were no doubt employed as equivalents. They differ
in meaning, however. Wm. R. Gerard writes: "_Peakadasank,_ or
_Pakadassin,_ means, 'It is laid out through the effects of a blow,' or
some other action. The participial form is _Pakadasing,_ meaning, 'Where
it is laid out,' or 'Where it lies fallen.' The reference in this case
would seem to be to the stone which had fallen off or been thrown down
from the hills." _Pachanasink_ means, "At the split rocks"; _Pachassin,_
"Split stone." In either form the name is from the split rocks.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The Verkerde Kill falls over a precipice of about seventy feet.
 The exposed surface of the precipice is marked by strata in the
 conglomerate as primarily laid down. The entire district is a region
 of split rocks. Verkerde Kill takes that name from Dutch _Verkeerd,_
 meaning "Wrong, bad, angry, turbulent," etc. It is the outlet of
 Meretange Pond near Sam's Point. It flows from the pond to the falls
 and from the falls at nearly a right angle over a series of cascades
 aggregating in all a fall of two hundred and forty feet. The falls are
 in the town of Gardiner, Ulster County. (See Aioskawasting.)

 The lands granted to Bruyn included the tract "Known by the Indian
 name of Pacanasink," now in the town of Shawongunk, and also a tract
 "Known by the Indian name of Shensechonck," now in the town of Crawford,
 Orange County. The latter seems to have been a parcel of level upland.
 It was about one mile to the southward of the stream.


Alaskayering, entered on Sauthier's map of 1774, as the name of the south
part of the Shawongunk range, was conferred by the English, possibly as
a substitute for Aioskawasting. The first word is heard in _Alaska,_
which is said, on competent authority, to mean, "The high bald rocks";
with locative _-ing,_ "At (or on) the high bald rocks." This
interpretation is a literal description of the hill, and Aioskawasting
may have the same meaning, although those who wrote the former may not
have had a thought about the latter. [FN] (See Pitkiskaker.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN] High Point, the highest elevation in the southern division of the
 range, is in New Jersey. It is said to be higher than Sam's Point, and
 to bear the same general description.


Achsinink, quoted by the late Rev. Charles Soott, D. D., from local
records probably, as the name of Shawongunk Kill, is an apheresis
apparently of _Pach-achsün-ink,_ "At (or on) a place of split stones."
Many of the split rocks thrown off from the mountain lie in the bed of
the stream, in places utilized for crossing. "There are rocks in it, so
that it is easy to get across." (Col. Hist. N. Y., viii, 272.) _Achsün,_
as a substantive, cannot be used as an independent word with a locative.
An adjectival prefix is necessary. (See Pakadasink.)

Palmagat, the name of the bend in the mountain north of Sam's Point,
regarded by some as Indian, is a Dutch term descriptive of the growth
there of palm or holly (_Ilex opaca_), possibly of shrub oaks the leaf
of which resembles the holly. _Gat_ is Dutch for opening, gap, etc.

Moggonck, Maggonck, Moggonick, Moggoneck, Mohonk, etc., are forms of the
name given as that of the "high hill" which forms the southwest boundmark
of the Paltz Patent, so known, now generally called locally, Paltz Point,
and widely known as Mohunk. The hill is a point of rock formation on the
Shawongunk range. It rises about 1,000 feet above the plain below and
is crowned by an apex which rises as a battlement about 400 feet above
the brow of the hill, now called Sky Top. _Moggonck_ and _Maggonck_ are
interchangeable orthographies. The former appears in the Indian deed from
_Matseyay,_ and other owners, to Louis Du Bois, and others, May 26, 1677,
and is carried forward in the patent issued to them in September of the
same year. _Moggoneck_ appears in Mr. Berthold Fernow's translation of
the Indian deed in Colonial History of N. Y., xiii, 506. _Moggonick_ was
written by Surveyor Aug. Graham on his map of survey in 1709, and
_Mohunk_ is a modern pronunciation. The boundary description of the
tract, as translated by the late Dr. E. B. O'Callaghan, from the Dutch
deed (N. Y. Land Papers, 15), reads: "Beginning at the high hill called
Moggonck, then southeast to Juffrouw's Hook in the Long Reach, on the
Great River (called in Indian Magaat Ramis), thence north to the island
called Raphoos, lying in the Kromme Elbow at the commencement of the
Long Reach, thence west to the high hill to a place [called] Warachaes
and Tawarataque, along the high hill to Moggonck." The translation in
Colonial History is substantially the same except in the forms of the
names. "Beginning from the high hill, at a place called Moggonck," is a
translation of the deed by Rev. Ame Vaneme, in "History of New Paltz."
It seems to be based on a recognition of the locative of the name as
established by Surveyor Graham in 1709, rather than on the original
manuscript. In the patent the reading is: "Beginning at the high mountain
called Moggonck," and the southwest line is described as extending from
Tawarataque "To Moggonck, formerly so called," indicating that the
patentees had not located the name as they would like to have it located;
certainly, that they had discovered that a line drawn from the apex of
the hill on a southeast course to Juffrouw's Hook, would divide a certain
fine piece of land, which they called the Groot Stuk (great piece), lying
between the hill and the Wallkill and fertilized by that stream, which
they wished to have included in the grant as a whole. So it came about
that they hurried to Governor Andros and secured an amended wording in
the patent of the deed description, and Surveyor-General Graham, when he
came upon the scene in 1709, to run the patent lines, found the locatives
"fixed," and wrote in his description, "Beginning at a certain point on
the hill called Moggonick, . . . thence south, thirty-six degrees
easterly, to a certain small creek called Moggonck, at the south end of
the great piece of land, and from thence south, fifty-five degrees
easterly, to the south side of Uffroe's Hook." Thereafter "The south end
of the great piece," and the "certain small creek," became the "First
station," as it was called. Graham marked the place by a stone which was
found standing by Cadwallader Colden in a survey by him in 1729, and
noted as at "The west end of a small gully which falls into Paltz River,
 . . . from the said stone down the said gully two chains and forty-six
links to the Paltz River." The "west end" of the gully was the east end
of the "Certain small creek" noted in Graham's survey. The precise point
is over three miles from the hill. In the course of the years by the
action of frost or flood, the stone was carried away. In 1892, from
actual survey by Abram LeFever, Surveyor, assisted by Capt. W. H. D.
Blake, to whom I am indebted for the facts stated, it was replaced by
another bearing the original inscription. By deepening the gully the
swamp of which the stream is the drainage channel, has been mainly
reclaimed, but the stream and the gully remain, as does also the Groot
Stuk. This record narrative is more fully explained by the following
certificate which is on file in the office of the Clerk of Ulster County:

 "These are to certify, that the inhabitants of the town of New Paltz,
 being desirous that the first station of their patent, named Moggonck,
 might be kept in remembrance, did desire us, Joseph Horsbrouck, John
 Hardenburgh, and Roeloff Elting, Esqs., Justices of the Peace, to
 accompany them, and there being Ancrop, the Indian, then brought us to
 the High Mountain, which he named Maggeanapogh, at or near the foot of
 which hill is a small run of water and a swamp, which he called
 Maggonck, and the said Ancrop affirmed it to be the right Indian names
 of the said places, as witness our hands the nineteenth day of December,
 1722."

Ancrop, or Ankerop as otherwise written, was a sachem of the Esopus
Indians in 1677, and was still serving in that office in 1722. He was
obviously an old man at the latter date. He had, however, no jurisdiction
over or part in the sale of the lands to the New Paltz Company in 1677.
His testimony, given forty-five years after the sale by the Indians, was
simply confirmatory in general terms of a location which had been made
in 1677, and the interpretation of what he said was obviously given by
the Justices in terms to correspond with what his employers wished him
to say. In the days of the locations of boundmarks of patents, his
testimony would have been regarded with suspicion. Locations of
boundmarks were then frequently changed by patentees who desired to
increase their holdings, by "Taking some Indians in a public manner to
show such places as they might name to them," wrote Sir William Johnson,
for many years Superintendent of Indian Affairs, adding that it was
"Well known" that an Indian "Would shew any place by any name you please
to give him, for a small blanket or a bottle of rum." Presumably Ankerop
received either "A small blanket or a bottle of rum" for his services,
but it is not to be inferred that the location of the boundmarks in 1677
was tainted by the "sharp practice" which prevailed later. It is
reasonable to presume, however, that the name would never have been
removed from the foot of the hill had not the Groot Stuk been situated
as it was with reference to a southeast line drawn from its apex to
Juffrouw's Hook.

Algonquian students who have been consulted, regard the name as it stands
as without meaning; that some part of the original was lost by mishearing
or dropped in pronunciation; that in the dialect which is supposed to
have been spoken here the suffix _-onck_ is classed as a locative and
the adjectival _Mogg_ is not complete. Several restorations of presumed
lost letters have been suggested to give the name a meaning, none of
which, however, are satisfactory. Apparently the most satisfactory
reading is from _Magonck_, or _Magunk_ (Mohegan), "A great tree,"
explained by Dr. Trumbull: "From _Mogki,_ 'Great,' and _-unk,_ 'A tree
while standing.'" It is met as the name of a boundmark on the Connecticut,
and on the east side of the Hudson, within forty miles of the locative
here, _Moghongh-kamigh_, "Place of a great tree," is met as the name of
a boundmark. _Mogkunk_ is also in the Natick dialect, and there is no
good reason for saying that it was not in the local dialect here. There
may have been a certain great tree at the foot of the hill, from which
the name was extended to the hill, and there may have been one on the
Wallkill, which Ankerop said "Was the right Indian name of the place."
It will be remembered that the deed boundmark was "The foot of the hill."
It is safe to say that the name never could have described "A small run
of water and a swamp," nor did it mean "Sky-Top." The former features
were introduced by the Justices to identify the place where the
boundary-stone was located and have no other value; the latter is a
fanciful creation, "Not consistent with fact or reason," but very good
as an advertisement.

Maggeanapogh, the name which Ankerop gave as that of the hill called
Moggonck, bears every evidence of correctness. It is reasonably pure
Lenape or Delaware, to which stock Ankerop probably belonged. The first
word, _Maggean,_ is an orthography of _Machen_ (_Meechin,_ Zeisb.;
_Mashkan,_ Chippeway), meaning "Great," big, large, strong, hard,
occupying chief position, etc., and the second, _-apogh,_ written in
other local names _-apugh, -apick,_ etc., is from _-ápughk_ (_-ápuchk,_
Zeisb.), meaning "Rock," the combination reading, literally, "A great
rock." In the related Chippeway dialect the formative word for rock is
_-bik,_ and the radical is _-ic_ or _-ick,_ of which Dr. Schoolcraft
wrote, "Rock, or solid formation of rock." No particular part of the
hill was referred to, the text reading, "There being Ankerop, the Indian,
then brought us to the High Mountain which he named Maggeanapogh." The
time has passed when the name could have been made permanent. For all
coming time the hill will bear the familiar name of Mohonk, the Moggonck
of 1677, the Paltz Point and the High Point of local history, from the
foot of which the place of beginning of the boundary line was never
removed, although the course from it was changed.

Magaat-Ramis, the record name of the southeast boundmark of the Paltz
Patent, is located in the boundary description at "Juffrou's Hook, in
the Long Reach, on the Great River (called in Indian Magaat-Ramis)."
(Cal. N. Y. Land Papers, 15.) Juffrouw's Hook is now known as Blue Point.
It is about two miles north of Milton-on-the-Hudson, and takes its
modern name from the color of the rock which projects from a blue-stone
promontory and runs for some distance under the water of the river,
deflecting the current to the northwest. The primal appearance of the
promontory has been changed by the cut for the West Shore Railroad, but
the submerged point remains. The Dutch name, _Juffrouw's Hook,_ was
obviously employed by the purchasers to locate the boundmark by terms
which were then generally understood. Juffrouw, the first word, means
"Maiden," one of the meanings of which is "Haai-rog"; "_rog_" means
"skate," or Angel-fish, of special application to a species of shark,
but in English shad, or any fish of the herring family, especially the
female. Hook means "Corner, cape, angle, incurved as a hook"; hence
"Maiden Hook," an angle or corner noted as a resort for shad, alewives,
etc.: by metonymie, "A noted or well-known fishing-place." The first
word of the Indian name, _Magaat,_ stands for _Maghaak_ (Moh.), _Machak_
(Zeisb., the hard surd mutes _k_ and _t_ exchanged), meaning "Great,"
large, extended, occupying chief position. The second word, _Ramis_ is
obscure. It has the appearance of a mishearing of the native word. What
that word was, however, may be inferred from the description, "Juffrou's
Hook, in the Long Reach, on the Great River (called in Indian
Magaat-Ramis)," or as written in the patent, "To a certain Point or
Hooke called the Jeuffrou's Hooke, lying in the Long Reach, named by the
Indians Magaat-Ramis." That the name was that of the river at that
place--the Long Reach--is made clear by the sentence which follows:
"Thence north along the river to the island called Rappoos, at the
commencement of the Long Reach," in which connection _Ramis_ would stand
for _Kamis_ or _Gamis,_ from _Gami,_ an Algonquian noun-generic meaning
"Water," frequently met in varying forms in Abnaki and Chippeway--less
frequently in the Delaware. In Cree the orthography is _Kume._ The final
_s_ is the equivalent of _k,_ locative, as in Abnaki _Gami-k,_ a
particular place of water. "On the Great Water," is probably the meaning
of Ramis. In Chippeway _Keeche-gummee,_ "The greatest water," was the
name of Lake Superior. As the name of the "Great Water," _Magaat-Ramis_
is worthy of preservation.

Rappoos, which formed the northeast boundmark of the Paltz Patent, is
specifically located in the Indian deed "Thence north [from Juffrou's
Hook] along the river to the island called Rappoos, lying in the Kromme
Elbow, at the commencement of the Long Reach." The island is now known
as Little Esopus Island, taking that name from Little Esopus Creek, which
flows to the Hudson at that point. It lies near the main land on the east
side of the river, and divides the current in two channels, the most
narrow of which is on the east. Kromme Elleboog (Crooked elbow), is the
abrupt bend in the river at the island, and the Long Reach extends from
the island south to Pollepel's Island. The name is of record Rappoos,
Raphoes, Raphos and Whaphoos, an equivalent, apparently, of _Wabose_ and
_Warpose,_ the latter met on Manhattan Island. It is not the name of the
island, but of the small channel on the east side of it from which it
was extended to the island. It means, "The narrows," in a general sense,
and specifically, "The small passage," or strait. The root is _Wab,_ or
_Wap,_ meaning, "A light or open place between two shores." (Brinton.)

Tawarataque, now written and pronounced _Tower-a-tauch,_ the name of the
northwestern boundmark of the Paltz Patent, is described in the Indian
deed already quoted: "Thence [from Rappoos] west to the high hills _to a
place_ called _Warachoes_ and _Tawarataque,_" which may refer to one and
the same place, or two different places. Surveyor Graham held that two
different places were referred to and marked the first on the east side
of the Wallkill at a place not now known, from whence by a sharp angle he
located the second "On the point of a small ridge of hills," where he
marked a flat rock, which, by the way, is not referred to in the name.
The precise place was at the south end of a clove between the hills,
access to which is by a small opening in the hills at a place now known
as Mud Hook. Probably _Warachoes_ referred to this opening. By dialectic
exchange of _l_ and _r_ the word is _Walachoes--Walak,_ "Hole," "A hollow
or excavation"; _-oes,_ "Small," as a small or limited hollow or open
place. "Through this opening," referring to the opening in the side of
the hill at Mud Hook, "A road now runs leading to the clove between the
ridges of the mountain," wrote Mr. Ralph LeFever, editor of the "New
Paltz Independent," from personal knowledge. _Tawarataque_ was the name
of this clove. It embodies the root _Walak_ prefixed by the radical _Tau_
or _Taw,_ meaning "Open," as an open space, a hollow, a clove, an open
field, etc., suffixed by the verb termination _-aque,_ meaning "Place,"
or _-áke_ as Zeisberger wrote in _Wochitáke,_ "Upon the house." The
reading in _Tawarataque_ is, "Where there is an open space"; _i. e.,_ the
clove. [FN] The late Hon. Edward Elting, of New Paltz, wrote me: "The
flat rock which Surveyor Graham marked as the bound, lies on the east
side of the depression of the Shawongunk Mountain Range leading
northwesterly from Mohunk, at the south end of the clove known as Mud
Hook, near the boundary line between New Paltz and Rosendale, say about
half a mile west of the Wallkill Valley R. R. station at Rosendale. I
think, but am not certain, that the rock can be seen as you pass on the
railroad. It is of the character known as Esopus Millstone, a white or
gray conglomerate. I cannot say that it bears the Surveyor's
inscription."

It is not often that four boundmarks are met that stand out with the
distinctness of those of the Paltz Patent, or that are clothed with
deeper interest as geological features, or that preserve more distinctly
the geographical landmarks of the aboriginal people.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The adjectival formative _-alagat,_ or _-aragat,_ enters into the
 composition of several words denoting "Hole," or "Open space," as
 _Taw-álachg-at,_ "Open space," _Sag-álachg-at,_ "So deep the hole." The
 verb substantive suffix _-aque,_ or _-ake_ (_qu_ the sound of _k_),
 meaning "Place," is entirely proper as a substitute for the verbal
 termination _-at._



[Illustration: HUDSON'S RIVER FROM BUTTER HILL TO MAGDALEN ISLAND.
(From Map of 1666)]



Ossangwak is written on Pownal's map as the name of what is known as the
Great Binnenwater (Dutch, "Inland water") in the town of Lloyd. The
orthography disguises the original, which may have been a pronunciation
of _Achsün_ (Minsi), "Stone," as in _Otstónwakin_, read by Reichel, "A
high rock," or rocky hill. Perhaps the name referred to the rocky bluff
which bounds the Hudson there, immediately west of which the lake is
situated.

Esopus--so written on Carte Figurative of 1614-16, and also by De Laet
in 1624-5; _Sopus,_ contemporaneously; _Sypous,_ Rev. Megapolensis, 1657,
is from _Sepuus_ (Natick), "A brook"; in Delaware, _Sipoes_ (Zeisberger).
It is from _Sepu_, "River," and _-es,_ "small." On the Carte Figurative
it is written on the east side of the river near a stream north of
Wappingers' Creek, as it may have been legitimately, but in 1623 it came
to be located permanently at what is now Rondout Creek, from which it
was extended to several streams, [FN] to the Dutch settlement now
Kingston, to the resident Indians, and to a large district of country.
The chirographer of 1614-16 seems to have added the initial E from the
uncertain sound of the initial S, and later scribes further corrupted
it to the Greek and Latin Æ. (See Waronawanka.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The streams entering the Hudson in proximity came to be known as
 the Kleine Esopus, south of Rondout; the Groot Esopus, now the Rondout,
 and the Esopus, now the Saugerties. In the valley west of old Kingston
 was a brook, called in records the "Mill Stream."


Waronawanka, Carte Figurative 1614-16--_Warrawannan-koncks,_ Wassenaer,
1621-5; _Warranawankongs,_ De Laet, 1621-5, and _Waranawankcougys,_ 1633;
_Waranawankongs,_ Van der Donck, 1656; _Waerinnewongh,_ local, 1677--is
located on the Carte Figurative on the west side of the Hudson a few
miles north of latitude 42. On Van der Donck's map it is placed on the
west side between Pollepel's Island and the Dans Kamer. De Laet wrote
in his "New World" (Leyden edition): "This reach [Vischer's, covering
Newburgh Bay] extends to another narrow pass, where, on the west side
of the river, there is a point of land juts out covered with sand,
opposite a bend in the river on which another nation of savages called
the _Waoranecks,_ have their abode at a place called Esopus. A little
beyond, on the west side of the river, where there is a creek, and the
river becomes more shallow, the _Waranawankongs_ reside. Here are several
small islands." In his French and Latin edition, 1633-40, the reading
is: "A little beyond where projects a sandy point and the river becomes
narrower, there is a place called Esopus, where the _Waoranekys_ have
their abode. To them succeed, after a short interval, the
_Waranawancougys_, on the opposite side of the river." Read together
there would seem to be no doubt that the _Waoranecks_ were seated on or
around the cove or bay at Low Point and the estuary of Wappingers' Creek,
and that the _Waranatwankongs_ were seated at and around the cove or bay
at Kingston Point, "Where a creek comes in and the river becomes more
shallow."

Of the meaning of the name Dr. A. S. Gatschet, of the Bureau of
Ethnology, wrote me: "If the _Warana-wan-ka_ lived on a bay or cove of
Hudson's River, their name is certainly from _Walina,_ which means
'hollowing, concave site,' and 'cove, bay,' in several eastern languages.
A good parallel are the _Wawenocks_ of S. W. Maine, now living at St.
Francis, who call themselves _Walinaki,_ or those living on a cove--'cove
dwellers'--in referring to their old home on the Atlantic coast near
Portland. In the Micmac (N. S.) dialect _Walini_ is 'bay, cove,' and
even the large Bay of Fundy is called so. The meaning of _k_ or _ka_ is
not clear, but _ong,_ in the later forms, is the locative 'at, on, upon.'"

It is safe to say that at either the Dans Kamer, Low Point, or Kingston
Point, the clan would have been seated on a bay, cove, recess or
indentation shaped like a bay, and it is also safe to say that _Warona_
and _Walina_ may be read as equivalents, the former in the local dialect,
and the latter in the Eastern, and that its general meaning is "Concave,
hollowing site." Zeisberger wrote _l_ instead of _r_ in the Minsi-Lenape,
hence _Woalac,_ "A hollow or excavation"; _Walóh,_ "A cove"; _Walpecat,_
"Very deep water." The dialectic _r_ prevails pretty generally on the
Hudson and on the Upper Delaware. On the latter, near Port Jervis, is
met of record _Warin-sags-kameck,_ which is surely the equivalent of
_Walina-ask-kameck,_ "A hollowing or concave site, a meadow or field."
It was written by Arent Schuyler, the noted interpreter, as the name of
a field which he described as "A meadow or vly." _Vly_ is a contraction
of Dutch _Vallei,_ meaning "A hollow or depression in which water stands
in the rainy season and is dry at other times," hence "hollowing." _Ask_
(generic), meaning "Green, raw," is the radical of words meaning
"meadow," "marsh," etc., and _-kameck_ stands for an enclosed field, or
place having definite boundaries as a hollow. _Awan_ (_-awan, -wan,
-uan,_ etc.), as Dr. Gatschet probably read the orthography, is an
impersonal verb termination met on the Hudson in Matteawan, Kitchiwan,
etc. Mr. Gerard writes that it was sometimes followed by the participial
and subjunctive _k._ It may have been so written here, but it seems to
be a form of the guttural aspirate _gh,_ for which it is exchanged in
many cases, here and in Kitchiwangh. In Connecticut on the Sound
apparently the same name is met in _Waranawankek,_ indicating that
whoever wrote it on the Figurative of 1614-16 was familiar with the
dialect of the coast Indians. As it stands the name is one of the oldest
and most sonorous in the valley of Hudson's River.

Ponkhockie is the familiar form of the name of the point, cove or
landing-place on the south side of Kingston Point. It is from Dutch
_Punthoekje,_ meaning, "Point of a small hook, or angle." The local
interpretation, "Canoe harbor," is not in the name, except inferentially
from the fact that the cove was a favorite landing place for canoes.
[FN-1] After the erection of a stockaded redoubt there, the Dutch called
the place Rondhout, meaning. "Standing timber," and the English followed
with Redoubt, and extended the name to the creek, as of record in 1670.
The present form is substantially a restoration of the early Dutch
Rondhout. The stockade was erected by Director Stuyvesant, at the
suggestion of the Amsterdam Chamber of the West India Company, about
1660. There were Dutch traders here certainly as early as 1622, and
presumably as early as 1614, but no permanent settlement appears of
record prior to 1652-3, nor is there evidence that there was a Rondhout
here prior to 1657-8. Compare Stuyvesant's letter of September, 1657, and
Kregier's Journal of the "Second Esopus War" (Col. Hist N. Y., xiii, 73,
314, also page 189), showing that the Rondhout was not completed until
the fall and winter of 1660. De Vries wrote in 1639-40, referring to
Kingston Point probably: "Some Indians live here and have some corn-lands,
but the lands are poor and stony." When Stuyvesant visited the place, in
1658, he anchored his barge "opposite to the two little houses of the
savages standing near the bank of the kil." (Col. Hist. N. Y., xiii, 82.)
In the vicinity the war of 1658 had its initiative in an unwise attack by
some settlers on a party of Indians who had been made crazy drunk on
brandy furnished them by Captain Thomas Chambers. Two houses were burned
belonging to settlers, and hostilities continued for eight or nine days.
"At the tennis-court near the Strand," a company of eleven Dutch soldiers
"allowed themselves to be taken prisoners," by the Indians, in 1659. It
does not seem probable that the Dutch had a Tennis Court here at that
early date, but the record so reads. [FN-2] The hook or cove, was the
most desirable place for landing on the south side of the Point. It has
since been the commercial centre of the town and city. Punthoekje is
certainly not without interesting history.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] In early times there were two principal landing places: One at
 Punthoekje and one north of the present steamboat landing, or Columbus
 Point as it is called. The Point is a low formation on the Hudson and
 was primarily divided from the main land by a marsh. It was literally
 "a concave, hollowing site." The marsh was later crossed by a corduroyed
 turnpike connecting with the old Strand Road, now Union Avenue. A ferry
 was established here in 1752 and is still operated under its original
 charter. The Point is now traversed by rail and trolley roads.

 [FN-2] Perhaps an Indian Football Court, resembling a Tennis Court. A
 writer in 1609 says of the Virginia natives: "They use, beside, football
 play, which women and boys do much play at. They have their goals as
 ours, only they never fight and pull each other down." There was a
 famous Tennis Court (Dutch _Kaatsbaan_) in the town of Saugerties, which
 seems to have been there long before the Dutch settlement. The Tennis
 Court referred to in the text is said to have been near the site of the
 present City Hall in Kingston, but would that place be strictly "near
 the Strand"? "Strand" means "shore, beach." It was probably on the
 beach.


Atkarkarton, claimed by some local authorities as the Indian name of
Kingston, comes down to us from Rev. Megapolensis, who wrote, in 1657:
"About eighteen miles [Dutch] up the North River lies a place called by
the Dutch Esopus or Sypous, by the Indians Atkarkarton. It is an
exceedingly beautiful land." (Doc, Hist. N. Y., iii, 103.) The Reverend
writer obviously quoted the name as of general application, although it
would seem to have been that of a particular place. As stated in another
connection, Esopus, Sypous, and Sopus were at first (1623) applied to a
trading-post on the Hudson, from which it was extended inland as a
general name and later became specific as that of the first palisaded
Dutch village named Wildwijk, which was founded a year after Megapolensis
wrote. At the date of his writing the territory called Sopus included the
river front, the plateau on which Kingston stands, and the flats on the
Esopus immediately west, particularly the flat known as the Groot Plat,
and later (1662) as the Nieuw Dorp or New Village, [FN-1] as distinguished
from Sopus or Wildwijk, or the Old Village, the specific site of which
could not have been referred to. Of the site of the Old Village, Director
Stuyvesant wrote in 1658: "The spot marked out for the settlement has a
circumference of about two hundred and ten rods [FN-2] and is well
adapted for defensive purposes. When necessity requires it, it can be
surrounded by water on three sides, and it may be enlarged according to
the convenience and requirements of the present and of future
inhabitants." The palisaded enclosure was enlarged by Stuyvesant, in
1661, to over three times its original size. The precise spot was on the
northwest corner of the plateau. It was separated from the low lands of
the Esopus Valley by a ridge of moderate height extending on the north,
east, and west, and had on the south "a swampish morass" which was
required to be drained, in 1669, for the health of the town "and the
improvement of so much ground." The Groot Plat in the Esopus Valley was
a garden spot ready for the plough and was regarded as of size sufficient
for "fifty bouweries" (farms). From the description quoted, and present
conditions, it may be said with certainty that the site of the Old
Village of Wildwijk was a knoll in an area of prairie and marsh. Neither
of the village sites seem to have been occupied by the Indians except by
temporary huts and corn-lands. The Wildwijk site was given to Director
Stuyvesant by the Indians, in 1658, "to grease his feet with" after his
"long journey" from Manhattan. Of the Groot Plat one-half was given by
the Indians to Jacob Jansen Stoll in compensation for damages. A
commission appointed at that time to examine the tract, and to ascertain
what part of it the Indians wished to retain, reported that the Indians
had "some plantations" there, "but of little value"; that it was "only
a question of one or two pieces of cloth, then they would remove and
surrender the whole piece." (Col. Hist. N. Y., xiii, 86, 89.) Instead of
paying the Indians for the lands, however, the settlers commenced
occupation, with the result that the Indians burned the New Village,
June 7, 1663, attacked the Old Village, killed eighteen persons and
carried away thirty captives, women and children. The war of 1663
followed, the results of which are accessible in several publications,
but especially in Colonial History of New York, Vol. xiii. It is
sufficient to say here that the Indians lost the lands in controversy
and a much larger territory. Interpretation of the name can only be made
conjecturally. William R. Gerard wrote me: "I think _Atkarkarton_ simply
disguises _Atuk-ak-aten,_ meaning 'Deerhill,' from _Atuk,_ 'Deer'; _ak,_
plural, and _aten,_ 'hill.' The _r's_ in the name do not mean anything;
they simply indicate that the _a's_ which precede them were nasal." The
Delaware word for "deer" is _Achtuch._ Dr. Schoolcraft wrote the
tradition that the first deers were the hunters of men.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] The land or place on the Esopus flat on which the New Village
 was founded, is now known as Old Hurley Village. It is repeatedly and
 specifically designated as "The Groot Plat"--"The large tract of land
 called the New Village"--"The burnt village called the Groot Plat."
 (Col. Hist. N. Y., xiii, 275, _et. seq._) Hurley was given to it by
 Governor Lovelace in 1669, from his family, who were Barons Hurley of
 Ireland.

 [FN-2] A Dutch rod is twelve feet, which would give this circumference
 at less than an English half mile. Schoonmaker writes in "History of
 Kingston": "The average length of the stockade was about thirteen
 hundred feet, and the width about twelve hundred feet." Substantially,
 it enclosed a square of about one-quarter of a mile.


Wildwijk, Dutch--_Wiltwyck,_ modern--the name given by Governor
Stuyvesant, in 1650, to the palisaded village which later became Kingston,
and then and later called Sopus, is a composition of Dutch _Wild,_ meaning
"Wild, savage," and _Wijk,_ "Retreat, refuge, quarter"; constructively,
"A village, fort or refuge from the savages." The claim that the place
was so called by Stuyvesant as an acknowledgment of the fact that the
land was a gift from the Indians, is a figment. The English came in
possession, in 1664, and, in 1669, [FN] changed the early name to
Kingston. The Dutch recovered possession in 1673, and changed the name
to Swanendale, and the English restored Kingston in 1674. (See
Atkarkarton.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN] "On this day (vizt 25th) the towne formerly called Sopez was named
 Kingston." Date Sept. 25th, 1669. (Col. Hist. N. Y., xiii, 435.)


Nanoseck, Manoseck, forms of the name of a small island in Rondout Creek,
so "called by the Indians" says the record, may be from Natick
_Nohōōsik,_ "Pointed or tapering." The Dutch called it "Little Cupper's
Island." _Cupper,_ "One who applies a cupping glass." Another island in
the same stream, was "called by the Indians _Assinke,_" that is "Stony
land" or place. (See Mattassink.) Another island was called by the Dutch
_Slypsten Eiland,_ that is, "Whetstone Island"; probably from the quality
of the stone found on it. It lies in the Hudson next to Magdalen Island.

Wildmeet, an Indian "house" so called by the Dutch, means, in the Dutch
language, "A place of meeting of savages." It was not a palisaded village.
It was burned by the Dutch forces in the war of 1660, at which time, the
narrative states, some sixty Indians had assembled at or were living in
it. Its location, by the late John W. Hasbrouck, at the junction of the
Vernoy and Rondout kills, is of doubtful correctness, as is also his
statement that it was "The council-house of all the Esopus Indians." Its
location was about two (Dutch) miles from Wildwyck, or about six or seven
English miles. Judge Schoonmaker wrote: "Supposed to have been located
in Marbletown."

Preumaker's Land, a tract described as "Lying upon Esopus Kil, within
the bounds of Hurley," granted to Venike Rosen, April 1, 1686, was the
place of residence of Preumaker, "The oldest and best" of the Esopus
sachems, whose life was tragically ended by Dutch soldiers in the war
of 1660. The location of his "house" is described as having been "At the
second fall of Kit Davits Kil."  [FN-1] A creek now bears the name of the
sachem, who was a hero if he was a savage.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] "Kit Davits' Kil" or the Rondout was so called from Christopher
 Davids, an Englishman, who was first at Fort Orange, and was an
 interpreter. He obtained, in 1656, a patent for about sixty-five acres,
 described as "Situate about a league (about three miles) inland from
 the North River in the Esopus, on the west side of the Great Kil,
 opposite to the land of Thomas Chambers, running west and northeast
 halfway to a small pond on the border of a valley which divides this
 parcel and the land of John de Hulter, deceased." Ensign Smith wrote:
 "I came with my men to the second valley on Kit Davietsen's River.. . .
 Further up in said valley I crossed the stream and found their house."
 (Col. Hist. N. Y., xiii.) Supposed to have been at LeFever's Falls in
 Rosendale. (Schoonmaker.)


Frudyachkamik, so written in treaty--deed of 1677 as the name of a place
on the Hudson at the mouth of Esopus (now Saugerties) Creek, is written
Tintiagquanneck in deed of 1767 (Cal. Land Papers, 454), and by the late
John W. Hasbrouck, _Tendeyachameck._ The deed orthography of 1677 is
certainly wrong as there is no sound of F in Algonquian. (See
Kerhonksen.)

                          * * * * *

 {TN} {Unable to locate interlinear references to the following two notes
 which appear on this page.}

 [FN-1] _Saugerties_ is probably a corruption of Dutch _Zager's Kiltje,_
 meaning in English, "Sawyer's little Kill." The original appears first
 of record in Kregier's Journal of the Second Esopus War (1663), "They
 were at Zager's Kiletje"; "To Sager's little Kill"; "To the Sager's
 Killetje." (Col. Hist. N. Y., xiii, 342, 344.) The first corruption of
 record also belongs to that period. It was by a Mohawk sachem who
 visited Esopus and at a conference converted Zager's Kiltje to
 Sagertjen. Some of the local Dutch followed with "de Zaagertje's." Other
 corruptions were numerous until the English brought in Saugerties. The
 original _Zager,_ however, seems to have held legal place for many
 years. In 1683, in a survey of the Meals Patent, covering lands now
 included in Saugerties, it is written: "Being part of the land called
 Sagers," and in another, "Between Cattskill and Sager's Kill." It is
 also of record that a man known by the surname of Zager located on the
 stream prior to 1663, obtained a cession of the lands on the kill from
 Kaelcop, an Esopus sachem, and later disappeared without perfecting his
 title by patent. _Zager_ is now converted to _Sager,_ and in English to
 _Sawyer._ The claim that Zager had a sawmill at the mouth of the stream
 seems to rest entirely upon his presumed occupation from the meaning of
 his name. A sawmill here, in 1663, would seem to have been a useless
 venture. In 1750, ninety years later, one Burregan had a mill at the
 mouth of the kill. "Burregan" stands for Burhans.

 [FN-2] "To Freudeyachkamik on the Groote River." (Col. Hist. N. Y.,
 xiii, 505.) It was probably the peninsular now known as Flatbush,
 Glasco, etc., at the mouth of the creek. The orthographies of the name
 are uncertain. An island south of the mouth of the creek was called
 _Qusieries._ Three or four miles north is _Wanton_ Island, the site of
 a traditionary battle between the Mohawks and the Katskill Indians. It
 is now the northeast boundmark of Ulster County. Neither of these
 islands could have been the boundmark of the lands granted by the
 Indians. _Wanton_ seems to be from _Wanquon_ (_Wankon,_ Del.),
 "Heel"--resembling a human heel in shape--pertuberant. The letter _t_
 in the name is simply an exchange of the surd mutes _k_ and _l._ Modern
 changes have destroyed the original appearance of the island.


Kerhonkson, now so written as the name of a stream of water and of a
village in the town of Wawarsing, Ulster County, is of record in several
forms--Kahanksen, Kahanghsen, Kahanksnix, Kahanckasink, etc. It takes
interest from its connection with the history and location of what is
known, in records of the Esopus Indian War of 1663, as the Old Fort as
distinguished from the New Fort. In the treaty of peace with the Dutch
in 1664, the fort is spoken of without name in connection with a district
of country admitted by the Indians to have been "conquered by the sword,"
including the "two captured forts." In the subsequent treaty (1665) with
Governor Nicolls the ceded district is described as "A certain parcel of
land lying and being to the west or southwest of a certain creek or river
called by the name of Kahanksen, and so up to the head thereof where the
Old Fort was; and so with a direct line from thence through the woods and
crosse the meadows to the Great Hill lying to the west or southwest,
which Great Hill is to be the true west or southwest bounds, and the said
creek called Kahanksen the north or northeast bounds of the said lands."
In a treaty deed with Governor Andros twelve years later (April 27,
1677), the boundary lines _"as they were to be thereafter,"_ are
described: "Beginning at the Rondouyt Kill, thence to a kill called
Kahanksnix, thence north along the hills to a kill called
Maggowasinghingh, thence to the Second Fall, easterly to Freudyachkamick
on the Groot River, south to Rondouyt Kill." In other words the district
conceded to have been "conquered by the sword" lay between the Esopus and
the Rondout on the Hudson, and extended west to the stream called
Kahanksen, thence north to a stream called Maggowasinghingh, thence
north, etc. The only stream that has been certainly identified as the
Maggowasinghingh is the Rondout, where it flows from the west to its
junction with the Sandberg Kill, east of Honk Falls, and this
identification certainly places Kahanksen _south_ of that stream. And in
this connection it may be stated that _the conquered lands did not extend
west of the Rondout._ The Beekman and the Beake patents were held
primarily by Indian deeds. After the conquest the Indians did not sell
lands _east_ of the boundary line, but did sell lands _west_ of that
line. The deed from Beekman to Lowe distinctly states that the lands
conveyed were "within the bounds belonging to the Indians." As the lands
on the west of the kill were not conquered and ceded to the Dutch, the
Old Fort could not have been on that side of the stream. In reaching
conclusions respect must be had to Indian laws, treaties, and boundary
descriptions. In the records of the town of Rochester, of which town
Wawarsing was a part, is the entry, under date of July 22, 1709, "Marynus
van Aken desired the conveyance of about one hundred acres of land lying
over against the land of Colonel Jacob Rutsen called Kahankasinck, known
as Masseecs," that is the land asked for by Van Aken took the name of
Masseecs from a swamp which the name means. Colonel Rutsen's land has not
been located; he held several tracts at different times, and one
especially on the west line of Marbletown known as Rosendale. Whatever
its location it shows that its name of Kahankasinck was extended to it
or from it from some general feature. Obviously from the ancient treaty
and deed boundaries the site of the Old Fort has not been ascertained,
nor has the Great Hill been located. Presumably both must be looked for
on Shawongunk Mountain.

The fort, as described by Kregier in his "Journal of the Second Esopus
War," was a palisaded village and the largest settlement of the Esopus
Indians. He made no reference to a stream or to a ravine, but did note
that he was obliged to pass over swamps, frequent kills, and "divers
mountains" that were so steep that it was necessary to "haul the wagons
and cannon up and down with ropes." His course was "mostly southwest"
from Wildwijk, and the fort "about ten miles" (Dutch), or from thirty to
thirty-five miles English. It was not so far southwest from Wildwijk
(Kingston) as the New Fort by "about four hours," a time measure equal
to nine or ten English miles. The Indians did not defend the fort; they
abandoned it "two days before" the Dutch troops arrived. No particular
description of it has been handed down. Under date of July 31, 1663,
Kregier wrote: "In the morning at dawn of day set fire to the fort and
all the houses, and while they were in full blaze marched out in good
order." And so disappeared forever the historic Indian settlement, not
even the name by which it was known certainly translatable in the absence
of knowledge of the topography of its precise location. [FN]

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The name has the appearance of derivation from _Gahan_ (Del.),
 "Shallow, low water"'; spoken with the guttural aspirate _-gks_
 (Gahaks), and indefinite formative _-an._ As a generic it would be
 applicable to the headwaters of any small stream, or place of low water,
 and may be met in several places.


Magowasinghinck, so written in its earliest form in treaty deed of 1677
(Col. Hist. N. Y., xiii) as the name of an Indian family, and also as the
name of a certain kill, or river--"Land lying on both sides of Rondout
Kill, or river, and known by the name of Moggewarsinck," in survey for
Henry Beekman, 1685--"Land on this side of Rondout Kill named
_Ragowasinck,_ from the limits of Frederick Hussay, to a kill that runs
in the Ronduyt Kill, or where a large rock lies in the kill," grant to
George Davis, 1677. The Beekman grant was on both sides of Rondout Creek
west and immediately above Honk Falls, where a large rock lying in the
kill was the boundmark to which the name referred and from which it was
extended to the stream and place. The George Davis grant has not been
located, and may never have been taken up. Beekman sold to Peter Lowe in
1708, and the survey of the latter, in 1722, described his boundary as
running west from "the great fall called Heneck." In Mr. Lindsay's
History of Ulster County it is said that the grant was half a mile wide
on the southeast side of the stream and a mile wide on the northwest
side. Hon. Th. E. Benedict writes me: "The Rondout is eminently a river
of rocks. It rises on the east side of Peekamoose, Table, and Lone
mountains, and west side of Hanover Mountain of the Catskills, and flows
through chasms of giant rocks. All the way down there are notable rocks
reared in midstream. The rock above Honk Falls is hogback shape, a
hundred or more feet long. It lies entirely in the stream and divides
it into two swift channels which join together just above the falls.
Here, amid the roar, the swirl and dash of waters breaking through rocky
barriers, with the rapids at the falls, the Great Rock was an object to
be remembered as a boundmark."

Without knowledge of the locative of the name or of the facts of record
concerning it, the late Dr. D. G. Brinton, replying to inquiry, wrote
me: "I take _Magow_ or _Moggew-assing-ink_ to be from _Macheu_ (Del.),
'It is great, large'; _achsün,_ 'stone', and _ink_ locative; literally
'at the place of the large stone'." The name does not describe the place
where the rock lies. The Davis grant in terms other than the Indian name
located one as lying "in the kill," and the other is described in the
survey of the patent to Beekman: "Land situate, lying and being upon both
sides of Rondout Kill or river, and known by the name of Moggewarsinck,
beginning at a great rock stone in the middle of the river and opposite
to a marked tree on the south side of the river, between two great rock
stones, which is the bounds betwixt it and the purchase of Mr. William
Fisher," etc.; both records confirm Dr. Brinton's interpretation. As a
generic the name may, like Kahanksan, be found in several places, but the
particularly certain place in the Beekman grant was at the falls called
Honneck, now Honk.

Wawarasinke, so written by the surveyor as the name of a tract of land
granted to Anna Beake and her children in 1685, has been retained as the
name of a village situate in part on that tract, about four miles north
of Ellenville. The precise location of the southern boundmark of the
patent was on the west bank of the Rondout, south of the mouth of
Wawarsing Creek, or Vernooy Kill as now called, which flows to the
Rondout in a deep rocky channel, the southern bank forming a very steep,
high hill or point. It is claimed that the Old Fort was on this hill,
and that to and from it an Indian path led east across the Shawongunk
Mountain to the New Fort and is still distinctly marked by the later
travel of the pioneers. That there was an Indian path will not be
questioned, nor will it be questioned that there may have been at least
a modern Indian village on the hill, but the Old Fort was not there. At
the point where the boundmark of the patent was placed the Rondout turns
at nearly a right angle from an east and west course to nearly north,
winding around a very considerable point or promontory. The orthography
of the name is imperfect. By dialectic exchange of _n_ and _r,_ it may be
read _Wa-wa-nawás-ink,_ "At a place where the stream winds, bends,
twists, or eddies around a point or promontory." This explanation is
fully sustained by the topography. Hon. Th. E. Benedict writes me: "The
Rondout at that point (the corner of the Anna Beake Patent) winds around
at almost a right angle. At the bend is a deep pool with an eddying
current, caused by a rock in the bank below the bend. The bend is caused
by a point of high land. It is a promontory seventy-five feet high." The
inquiry as to the meaning of the name need not be pursued further. The
frequently quoted interpretation, "Blackbird's Nest," is puerile. (See
Wawayanda.)

Honk, now so written as the name of the falls on Rondout Creek at
Napanock, appears first in Rochester town records, in 1704, _Hoonek,_ as
the name of the stream. In the Lowe Patent (1722), the reading is:
"Beginning by a Great Fall called _Honeck._" The Rochester record is
probably correct in the designation of the name as that of the creek,
indicating that the original was _Hannek_ (Del.), meaning, "A rapid
stream," or a stream flowing down descending slopes. As now written the
name means nothing unless read from Dutch _Honck,_ "Home, a standing post
or place of beginning," but that could not have been the derivative for
the name was in place before the falls became the boundmark. The familiar
interpretation: "From _Honck_ (Nar.), 'Goose'--'Wild-goose Falls,'" is
worthless. The local word for Goose was _Kaak._ The falls descend two
hundred feet, of which sixty is in a single cataract--primarily a wild,
dashing water-fall.

Lackawack appears of record as the name of a stream in Sullivan County,
otherwise known as the West Branch of Rondout Creek, and also as the name
of the valley through which it passes. The valley passes into the town
of Wawarsing, Ulster County, where the name is met in the Beekman and in
the Lowe patents, with special application to the valley above Honk
Falls, and is retained as the name of a modern village. In the Lowe
Patent it is written Ragawack, the initials L and R exchanged; in the
Hardenberg Patent it is Laughawake. The German missionary orthography is
_Lechauwak_ (Zeisb.), "Fork, division, separation," that which forks or
divides, or comes together in the form of a fork; literally, "The Fork."
_Lechauwak,_ "Fork"; _Lechau-hanne,_ "Fork of a river," from which
Lackawanna; _Lechau-wiechen,_ "Fork of a road," from which
Lackawaxen--"abbreviated by the Germans to _Lecha,_ and by the English
to _Lehigh._" (Reichel.)

Napanoch, on the Rondout below Honk Falls, is probably the same word that
is met in _Nepeak,_ translated by Dr. Trumbull, "Water-land, or land
overflowed by water." At or near Port Jervis, Napeneck, Napenack, etc.
The adjectival is _Nepé, Napé,_ "Water."

Wassahawassing, in the Lowe Patent and also in the deed to Lowe from
Henry Beekman, is probably from _Awossi-newás-ing_ (Del.), "At the point
or promontory beyond," or on the other side of a certain place.

Mopochock--"A certain Great Kil called Mopochock," in patent to Joachim
Staats, 1688, is said to have been the name of what is now known as
Sandberg Kill, but was not, as that stream was in no way connected with
the Staats Patent.

Naversing is entered on Pownal's map between Rosendale and Fountain
creeks, in the old town of Rochester. The map location may not be
correct. The name is from _Newás-ing,_ (Del.), "At a point or
promontory." The familiar form is Neversink.

Mattachonts, a modern orthography, preserves the name of a place in the
town of Rochester, Ulster County, and not that of an Indian maiden as
locally stated. The boundary description refers to a creek and to a
swamp. The record orthographies are Magtigkenighonk and Maghkenighonk,
in Calendar of Land Papers, and "Mattekah-onk Kill," local.

Amangag-arickan, given as the name of an Indian family in western Ulster
(Col. Hist. N. Y., xiii, 505), is probably from _Amangak,_ "Large," with
the related meaning of terrible, and _Anakakan,_ "Rushes," or sharp
rushes. _Amangak_ is from _Amangi,_ "Big, large, powerful, dire," etc.,
and _-ak,_ animate plural.

Ochmoachk-ing, an unlocated place, is described as "Above the village
called Mombackus, extending from the north bound of the land of Anna
Beake southerly on both sides of the creek or river to a certain place
called Ochmoachking." (Patent to Staats, 1688.)

Shokan, the name of a village on Esopus Creek, in the town of Olive, has
been interpreted as a pronunciation of _Schokkan_ (Dutch), "To jolt, to
shake," etc., by metonymie, "A rough country." The district is
mountainous and a considerable portion of it is too rough for successful
cultivation, but no Hollander ever used the word _Schokken_ to describe
rough land. At or near the village bearing the name a small creek flows
from the west to the Esopus, indicating that _Shokan_ is a corruption of
_Sohkan,_ "Outlet or mouth of a stream." _Sohk_ is an eastern form and
_an_ is an indefinite or diminutive formative. Heckewelder wrote in the
Delaware, _Saucon,_ "The outlet of a small stream into a larger one."
_Ashokan_ is a pronunciation. The same name is met at the mouth of the
East or Paghatagan Branch of the Delaware. Shokan Point is an elevation
rising 3100 feet.

Koxing Kil, a stream so called in Rosendale, is of record _Cocksing_ and
_Cucksink_--"A piece of land; it lyeth almost behind Marbletown." It is
not the name of the stream but of a place that was at or near some other
place; probably from _Koghksuhksing,_ "Near a high place." (See
Coxackie.) On map of U. S. Geological Survey the name is given to the
outlet of Minnewaska Lake, which lies in a basin of hills on Shawongunk
Mountain, 1650 feet above sea level.

Shandaken, the name of a town in Ulster County, is not from any word
meaning "Rapid water," as has been suggested, but is probably from
_Schindak,_ "Hemlock woods"--_Schindak-ing,_ "At the hemlock woods," or
place of hemlocks. The region has been noted for hemlocks from early
times.

Mombackus, accepted as the name of a place in the present town of
Rochester, Ulster County, is first met in 1676, in application to three
grants of land described as "At ye Esopus at ye Mumbackers, lying at ye
Round Doubt River." In a grant to Tjerck Classen de Witt, in 1685, the
orthography is Mombackhouse--"Lying upon both sides of the Mumbackehous
Kill or brook." The stream is now known as Rochester Creek flowing from
a small lake in the town of Olive. The late John W. Hasbrouck wrote,
"Mombakkus is a Dutch term, literally meaning 'Silent head,' from _Mom,_
'silent,' and _Bak_ or _Bakkus,_ 'head.' It originated from the figure
of a man's face cut in a sycamore tree which stood near the confluence
of the Mombakkus and Rondout kills on the patent to Tjerck Classen de
Witt, and was carved, tradition says, to commemorate a battle fought
near the spot," that "for this information" he was "indebted to the late
Dr. Westbrook, who said the stump of the tree yet stood in his youthful
days." Although the evidence of the existence of a tree marked as
described is not entirely positive, the fact that trees similarly marked
were frequently met by Europeans in the ancient forests gives to its
existence reasonable probability. In his treatment of the name Mr.
Hasbrouck made several mistakes. "Place of death" is not in the word,
and Dutch _Mom_ or _Mum_ does not mean "Silent"; it means "Mask," or
covering, and _Bak_ or _Bakkes,_ does not mean "head," it is a cant term
for "Face, chops, visage." _Mombakkes_ is plainly a vulgar Dutch word
for "Mask." It describes a grotesque face as seen on a Mascaron in
architecture, or a rude painting. Usually trees marked in the manner
described included other figures commemorative of the deeds of a warrior
designed to be honored. Sometimes the paintings were drawn by a member
of the clan or family to which the subject belonged, and sometimes by
the hero himself, who was flattered by the expectation that his memory
would thereby be preserved, or his importance or prowess impressed upon
his associates, or on those of other clans, and perhaps handed down to
later generations.

Wieskottine, located on Van der Donck's map (1656), north of Esopus
Creek and apparently in the territory of the Catskill Indians, is a Dutch
notation of _Wishquot-attiny,_ meaning, literally, "Walnut Hill." A hill
and trees are figured on the map. The dialect of the Catskill Indians
was Mahican or Mohegan. It seems to have influenced very considerably
the adjoining Lenape dialect. On a map of 1666, the orthography is
_Wichkotteine,_ and the location placed more immediately north of the
stream. The settlement represented can be no other than that of the
ancient Wildwijk, now Kingston. The name has disappeared of record, as
has also _Namink_ on the Groot Esopus.

Catskill, now so written, primarily Dutch _Kat's Kil,_ presumably from
_Káterákts,_ or "Kil of the Katarakts," has come down from a very early
date in _Katskil._ On Van der Donck's map of 1656 it is written _Kats
Kill,_ but he never wrote Kil with two l's. Older than Van der Donck's
map it evidently was from the frequent reference to the "Kats Kil
Indians" in Fort Orange records. Its origin is, of course, uncertain.
Reasonably and presumably it was a colloquial form of Katerakts
Kil--reasonably, because the falls on that stream would have naturally
attracted the attention of the early Dutch navigators, as they have
attracted the attention of many thousands of modern travelers. It was
the absence of an authoritative explanation that led Judge Benson to
inflict upon the innocent streams which now bear them the distinguishing
names of _Kat's_ and _Kauter's,_ and to relate that as catamounts were
probably very abundant in the mountains there and were naturally of the
male and female species, the former called by the Dutch _Kauter,_ or "He
cat," and the latter _Kat,_ "She cat," the streams were called by those
names. His hypothesis is absurd, but is firmly believed by most of modern
residents, who do not hesitate to write _Kauter,_ "He cat," on their
cards and on their steamboats, although it is no older than Judge
Benson's application. He might have found a better basis for his
conjecture in the fact that in 1650, on the north side of the Kat's Kil
reigned in royal majesty, _Nipapoa,_ a squaw sachem, while on the other
side _Machak-nimano,_ "The great man of his people," held sway; that,
as they painted on their cabins a rude figure of a wolf, their totemic
emblem, easily mistaken for a catamount, the name of "He cat" was given
to one stream, and "She cat" to the other.

Katarakts Kil, as it is met of record--now Judge Benson's Kauter Kil--is
formed by the outlets of two small lakes lying west of the well-known
Mountain House. A little below the lakes the united streams leap over a
ledge and fall 175 feet to a shelf of rock, and a few rod's below fall
85 feet to a ravine from which they find their way to the Kat's Kil.
Beautiful are the falls and appropriate is the ancient name "The Kil of
the Kataracts." Compare it, please, with Judge Benson's "He cat kil."

The Kat's Kil Indians have an interesting history. They are supposed to
have been the "loving people" spoken of in Juet's Journal of Hudson's
voyage in 1609. They were Mahicans and always friendly in their
intercourse with the Dutch. In the wars with the Esopus Indians they took
no part. Their hereditary enemies were the Mohawks who adjoined them on
the west side of the mountains, their respective territories following
the line of the watersheds. They came to be more or less mixed with
fugitives from the eastern provinces, after the overthrow of King Philip.
A palisaded village they had north of the Esopus, and fierce traditional
battles with the Mohawks. They disappeared gradually by the sale of their
lands, and gave place to the Rip van Winkles of modern history.



[Illustration: The River at Hudson Looking South-West]



Quatawichnack and Katawichnack, record forms of the name given as that
of a fall on Kauter's Kill, now so written, supposed to be the fall near
the bridge on the road to High Falls, has been interpreted "Place of the
greatest overflow," from the overflow of the stream which forms a marsh,
which, however, the name describes as a "Moist, boggy meadow," or boggy
land. (See Quatackuaohe.)

Mawignack, Mawichnack, Machawanick, Machwehenoc, forms of the name given
as that of the meadow at the junction of the Kauter Kil and the Kat's
Kil, locally interpreted, "Place where two streams meet," means, "At the
fork of the river." (See Mawichnauk.)

Pasgatikook is another record name of the Katskill, varied in Pascakook
and Pistakook. It is an orthography of _Pishgachtigûk_ (Moh.), meaning,
"Where the river divides, or branches." (See Schaghticoke.) In patent to
John Bronck, 1705, the name is given to "A small piece of land called
Pascak-ook, lying on the north side of Katskil creek." The locative is
claimed by the village of Leeds.

Teteachkie, the name of a tract granted to Francis Salisbury and described
as "A place lying upon Katskill Creek," has not been located. _Teke,_ from
_Teke-ne,_ may stand for "Wood," and _-achkie_ stand for land--a piece
of woodland.

Quachanock, modern _Quajack,_ the name of a place described as the west
boundary of a tract sold to Jacob Lockerman, does not mean "Christian
corn-lands," as locally interpreted, although the Indians may have called
"the five great plains" the "Christian corn-land" after their occupation
by the purchasers. The original word was probably _Pahquioke,_ or
_Pohqu'un-auke_ (_-ock_), "Cleared, opened land," or land from which the
trees and bushes had been removed to fit it for cultivation.

Wachachkeek, of record as the name of the first of "five great flats,
with the woodland around them," which were included in the Catskill
Patent of 35,000 acres, is otherwise written _Machachkeek._ It is
described as "lying on both sides of Catskil Creek," and is claimed to
be known as a place west of the village of Leeds. Dr. O'Callaghan
interpreted the name from _Wacheu,_ "hill," and _-keag,_ "land" or
place--"Hill country," and Dr. Trumbull gave the same meaning from
_Wadchuauke._ The orthography of the second form, however, is probably
the most correct--_Machachkeek_--which pretty surely, from the locative,
stands for _Maskekeck,_ meaning, "Marsh or wet meadow."

Wichquanachtekok, the name of the second flat, is no doubt an equivalent
of _Wequan-achten-ûk,_ "At the end of the hill," from _Wequa,_ "the end";
_-achtene,_ "hill" or mountain, and _-ûk,_ locative.

Pachquyak, Pachquyak, Paquiage, etc., forms of the name of the third flat
(_Pachquayack,_ 1678), given also as the name of a flat "in the Great
Imbocht," [FN] is the equivalent of _Panqua-auke,_ Mass., "Clear land,
open country." Brodhead wrote _Paquiage_ as the name of the place on the
west side of the Hudson to which the followers of King Philip retreated
in 1675, but the name may have been that of any other open or unoccupied
land west of the Hudson. (See Potik.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN] Dutch _Inbocht,_ "In the bend," "bay," etc. "Great" was added as
 an identification of the particular bend spoken off.


Paskaecq--"a certain piece of land at Katskill, on the north side of the
kill, called by the Indians Paskaecq, lying under a hill to the west of
it." Conveyed to Jan Bronk in 1674-5. The name describes a vale, cleft
or valley. It is widely distributed. (See Paskack.)

Assiskowachok or Assiskowacheck, the name of record as that of the fourth
flat, is no doubt from _Assiskeu,_ "Mud"--_Assiskew-aughk-ûk,_ "At (or
on) a muddy place."

Potic, the name of the fifth flat, is also of record Potick, Potatik, and
Potateuck, probably an equivalent of _Powntuckûk_ (Mass.), denoting,
"Country about the falls." (Trumbull.) From the flat the name was
extended to a hill and to a creek in the town of Athens. Hubbard, in his
"History of Indian Wars," assigns the same name to a place on the east
side of Hudson's River. (See Pachquyak and Schaghticoke.)

Ganasnix and Ganasenix, given as the name of a creek constituting the
southern boundary of the Lockerman Patent (1686), seems to be an
orthography of Kaniskek, which see.

Waweiantepakook, Waweantepakoak, Wawantepekoak, are forms of a name given
as that of "a high round hill" near Catskill. The description reads: "A
place on the northeast side of a brook called Kiskatamenakook, on the
west side of a hill called Waweantepakoak." (Land Papers, 242.) The
location has not been ascertained. _Antpéch_ (_Antpek,_ Zeisb.), means
"Head." In Mass. (Eliot), _Puhkuk--Muppukuk,_ "A head." _Wawei_ is a
reduplicative of _Wai_ or _Way_; it means, "Many windings around," or
deviations from a direct line. The name is sufficiently explained by the
description, "On the west side of a hill," or a hill-side, but
descriptive of a hill resembling a head--"high, erect"--with the
accessory meaning of superiority. "Indian Head" is now applied to one
of the peaks of the Catskills. The parts of the body were sometimes
applied by the Indians to inanimate objects just as we apply them in
English--head of a cove, leg of a table, etc. (See Wawayanda.)

Kiskatom, a village and a stream of water so called in Greene County,
appears in two forms in original records, _Kiskatammeeche_ and
_Kiskatamenakoak._ The abbreviated form, _Kiskatom,_ appears in 1708,
more particularly describing "A certain tract by a place called
Kiskatammeeche, beginning at a turn of Catrick's Kill ten chains below
where Kiskatammeeche Kill watereth into Catrick's Kill," and "Under the
great mountain called Kiskatameck." Dr. Trumbull wrote:
"_Kiskato-minak-auke,_ 'Place of thin-shelled nuts,' or shag-bark hickory
nuts." He explained: "Shag-bark hickory nuts, 'nuts to be cracked by
the teeth,' are the 'Kiskatominies' and 'Kisky Thomas nuts' of the
descendants of the Dutch colonists of New Jersey and New York." (Comp.
Ind. Geographical Names.)

Kaniskek, or Caniskek, of record as the name of Athens, is described in
original deeds: "A certain tract of land on the west side of North River
opposite Claverack, called Caniskek, which stretches along the river from
the lands of Peter Bronck down to the valley lying near the point of the
main land behind the Barren Island, called Mackawameck," now known as
Black Rock, at the south part of Athens. The description covers the long
marshy flat in front of Athens, or between Athens and Hudson. The name
seems to be from _Quana_ (_Quinnih,_ Eliot), "Long"; _-ask,_ the radical
of all names meaning grass, marsh, meadow, etc., and _-ek,_
formative--literally, "Long marsh or meadow." The early settlement at
Athens was called Loonenburgh, from one Jan van Loon, who located there
in 1706. Esperanza succeeded this name and was followed by Athens. The
particular place of first settlement is described as running "from the
corner called Mackawameck west into the woodland to the Kattskill road
or path, which land is called Loonenburgh." Athens is from the capital
of the ancient Greek State of Attica.

Keessienwey's Hoeck, a place so called, [FN-1] has not been located. It
is presumed to have been in the vicinity of Kaniskek and to have taken
its name from the noted "chief or sachem" of the Katskill Indians called
Keessienwey, Keesiewey, Kesewig, Keeseway, etc. On the east side of the
river, south of Stockport, Kesieway's Kil is of record. Mr. Bernard
Fernow, in his translation of the Dutch text wrote, "_Keessienweyshoeck_
(Mallows Meadow Hook)," but no meadow of that character is of local
record. Kessiewey was a peace chief, or resident ruler, whose office it
was to negotiate treaties of peace for his own people, or for other clans
when requested, and in this capacity, with associates, announced himself
at Fort Orange, in 1660, as coming, "in the name of the Esopus sachems,
to ask for peace" with them. [FN-2] He was engaged in similar work in
negotiating the Esopus treaty of 1664; signed the deed for Kaniskek in
1665, and disappears of record after that date. In "History of Greene
County," he is confused with Aepjen, a peace chief of the Mahicans, and
in some records is classed as a Mahican, which he no doubt was tribally,
but not the less "a Katskil Indian." Beyond his footprints of record,
nothing is known of the noted diplomat. His name is probably from
_Keeche,_ "Chief, principal, greatest." _Keechewae,_ "He is chief." (See
Schodac.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] ". . . We have, therefore, gathered information from the
 Mahicanders, who thought we knew of it, that more than fifteen days ago
 some Esopus [Indians] had been at Keessienwey's Hoeck who wanted to come
 up [to Fort Orange], but had been prevented until this time, and in
 order to get at the truth of the matter, we have concluded to send for
 two or three sachems of the Katskil Indians, especially Macsachneminanau
 and Safpagood, also Keesienwey, to come hither." (Col. Hist. N. Y.,
 xiii, 309.)

 [FN-2] "May 24, 1660. To-day appeared [at Fort Orange] three Mahican
 chiefs, namely, Eskuvius, alias Aepjen (Little Ape), Aupaumut, and
 Keessienway, alias Teunis, who answered that they came in the name of
 the Esopus sachems to ask for peace."


Machawameck, the south boundmark of Kaniskek, was not the name of
Barrent's Island, as stated in French's Gazetteer. It was the name of a
noted fishing place, now known as Black Rock, in the south part of
Athens. The prefix _Macha,_ is the equivalent of _Massa_ (Natick _Mogge_),
meaning "Great," and _-ameck_ is an equivalent of _-ameek_ (_-amuk,_
Del.), "Fishing-place." As the root, _-am,_ means "To take by the mouth,"
the place would seem to have been noted for fish of the smaller sort.
The Dutch called the place _Vlugt Hoek,_ "Flying corner," it is so
entered in deed. Qr. "Flying," fishing with a hook in the form of a fly.

Koghkehaeje, Kachhachinge, Coghsacky, now Coxsackie, a very early place
name where it is still retained, was translated by Dr. Schoolcraft from
_Kuxakee_ (Chip.), "The place of the cut banks," and by Dr. O'Callaghan,
"A corruption of Algonquin _Kaakaki,_ from _Kaak,_ 'goose,' and _-aki,_
'place.'" In his translation of the Journal of Jasper Dankers and Peter
Sluyter, in which the name is written _Koch-ackie_ (German notation;
Dutch, _Kok,_ "cook"), the late Hon. Henry C. Murphy wrote: "The true
orthography is probably _Koek's-rackie_ (the Cook's Little Reach), to
distinguish it from the Koek's Reach below the Highlands, near New York."
Unfortunately there is no evidence that there was a reach called the
Cook's north of the Highlands, while it is certain that the name is
Algonquian. Dankers and Sluyter gave no description of the place in
1679-80, but their notice of it indicates that it was familiar at that
date. In 1718 it was given as the name of a bound-mark of a tract
described as "having on the east the land called Vlackte and Coxsackie."
(Cal. N. Y. Land Papers, 124.) _Vlackte_ (Vlakte) is Dutch for "Plain or
flat," and no doubt described the Great Nutten Hoek Flat which lies
fronting Coxsackie Landing, and Coxackie described the clay bluff which
skirts the river rising about one hundred feet. The bluff and flat
bounded the tract on the east. From the locative the name may be
translated from Mass. _Koghksuhk-ohke,_ meaning "High land." The guttural
_ghks_ had the sound of Greek x, hence _Kox_ or _Cox._

Stighcook, a tract of land so called, now in Greene County, granted to
Casparus Brunk and others in 1743, is located in patent as lying "to the
westward of Koghsacky." In Indian deed to Edward Collins, in 1734, the
description reads, "Westerly by the high woods known and called by the
Indian name Sticktakook." Apparently from Mass. _Mishuntugkook,_ "At a
place of much wood." The district seems to have been famed for nut trees.
It is noted on Van der Donck's map "Noten Hoeck," from which it was
extended to Great Nutten Hook Island and Little Nutten Hook Island, on
which there were nut trees. (See Wieskottine, Kiskatom, etc.)

Siesk-assin, a boundmark of the Coeymans Patent, is described as a point
on the west side of the Hudson, "opposite the middle of the island called
_Sapanakock_ and by the Dutch called Barrent's Island." The suffix
_-assin,_ probably stands for _Assin,_ "Stone," but the prefix is
unintelligible. _Sapanak-ock_ means, "Place of wild potatoes," or bulbous
roots. (See Passapenoc.) Barrent's is from Barrent Coeymans, the founder
of the village of Coeymans. The earlier Dutch name was Beerin Island, or
"She-bear's Island," usually read Bear's Island.

Achquetuck is given as the name of the flat at Coeyman's Hollow. The
suffix _-tuck_ probably stands for "A tidal river or estuary," and
_Achque_ means "On this side," or before. The reference seems to have
been to land before or on this side of the estuary, or the side toward
the speaker.

Oniskethau, quoted as the name of Coeymans' Creek, is said to have been
the name of a Sunk-squa, or sachem's wife. Authority not given. The
stream descends in two falls at Coeymans' Village, covering seventy-five
feet. The same name is met in _Onisquathaw,_ now _Niskata,_ of record as
the name of a place in the town of New Scotland, Albany County.

Hahnakrois, or Haanakrois, the name of a small stream sometimes called
Coeymans' Creek, which enters the Hudson in the northeast corner of
Greene County, is Dutch corrupted. The original was _Haan-Kraait,_
meaning "Cock-crowing" Kill, perhaps from the sound of the waterfall.

Sankagag, otherwise written _Sanckhagag,_ is given, in deed to Van
Rensselaer, 1630, as the name of a tract of land described as "Situated
on the west side of the North River, stretching in length from a little
above Beeren Island along the river upward to Smack's Island, and in
width two days' journey inland." Beeren Island is about twelve miles
south of Albany, and Smack's Island is near or at that city. The western
limit of the tract included the Helderberg [FN] hills.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] _Helder_ (Dutch) means "Clear, bright, light, clearly, brightly,"
 and Berg means "hill" or mountain. It was probably employed to express
 the appearance of the hills in the landscape. Some of the peaks of the
 range afford fine view of the valley of Hudson's River.


Nepestekoak, a tract of land described, "Beginning at the northernmost
fall of water in a certain brook, called by the Indians Nepestekoak";
in another paper, Nepeesteegtock. The name was that of the place. It is
now assigned to a pond in the town of Cairo, Greene County. (See
Neweskeke.)

Neweskeke, -keek, about ten miles south of Albany, is described as "The
corner of a neck of land having a fresh water river running to the east
of it." In another paper the neck is located "near a pool of water called
Nepeesteek," and "a brook called Napeesteegtock." The name of the brook
and that of the pool is from _Nepé_, "Water," the first describing
"Water at rest," a pool or lake, and the second a place adjoining
extending to the stream. _Neweskeke_ means "Promontory, point or
corner," [FN]

                          * * * * *

 [FN] This name appears to be a contraction of _Newas-askeg,_ "Marshy
 promontory,' or a promontory or point near a marsh." (Gerard.)


Pachonahellick and Pachonakellick are record forms of the name of Long
or Mahikander's Island, otherwise known historically as Castle Island.
It is the first island south of Albany, and lies on the west side of the
river, near the main land opposite the mouth of Norman's Kill. On some
maps it is called Patroon's Island and Martin Garretson's Island. The
first Dutch traders were permitted to occupy it, and they are said to
have erected on it, in 1614, a fort or "castle," which they called Fort
Nassau. In the spring of 1617 this fort was almost wholly destroyed by
freshet. The traders then erected a fort on the west bank of the river,
on the north side of Norman's Kill, which they called Fort Orange. This
fort was succeeded, in 1623, by one on or near the present steamboat
landing in Albany, to which the name was transferred and which was known
as Fort Orange until the English obtained possession (1664), when the
name was changed to Fort Albany, from which the present name of the
capital of the State. [FN-1] In addition to the early history of the
island the claim is made by Weise, in his "History of Albany," that it
was occupied by French traders in 1540; that they erected a fort or
castle thereon, which they were forced to leave by a freshet in the
spring of 1542, and that they called the river, and also their trading
post, "Norumbega." These facts are also stated in another connection.
There is some evidence that French traders visited the river, and that
they constructed a fort on Castle Island, but none that they called the
river "Norumbega." (See Muhheak-unuk.) By the construction of an
embankment and the filling of the passage between the island and the
main land, the island has nearly disappeared. [FN-2]

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] Fort Albany was succeeded by a quadrangular fort called Fort
 Frederick, built by the English (1742-3) on what is now State Street,
 between St. Peter's Church and Geological Hall. It was demolished soon
 after the Revolution. Wassenaer wrote, under date of 1625: "Right
 opposite [Fort Orange] is the fort of the Maykans which they built
 against their enemies the Maquas" [Mohawks]. "Right opposite" means
 "directly opposite," _i. e._ directly opposite the present steamboat
 landing at Albany, presumably on the bluff at Greenbush.

 [FN-2] The name seems to have been that of the mouth of Norman's Kill
 immediately west of the island, and to be from _Sacona-hillak._ "An
 out-pour of water," the mouth of the stream serving to locate the
 island. "Patroon's Island" and "Patroon's Creek" were local Dutch
 names. (See Norman's Kill.)


Norman's Kill, so well known locally, took that name from one Albert
Andriessen, Brat de Noordman (the Northman), who leased the privilege
and erected a mill for grinding corn, sometime about 1638. On Van
Rensselaer's map of 1630 it is entered "Godyn's Kil and Water Val," a
mill stream, not a cataract. Brat de Noordman's mill was in the town of
Bethlehem, adjoining the city of Albany. The stream rises in Schenectady
County and flows southeast about twenty-eight miles to the Hudson. The
Mohawks called it _Tawalsontha._ In a petition for a grant of land near
Schenectady, in 1713, is the entry, "By ye Indian name Tawalsontha,
otherwise ye Norman's Kill"--"A creek called D'Wasontha" (1726)--from
the generic _Toowawsuntha_ (Gallatin), meaning, "The falls of a stream";
_Twasenta_ (Bruyas), "Sault d'eau," applied by the French to rapids in
a stream--a leaping, jumping, tumbling waterfall.

Aside from the names of the stream it has especial historic interest in
connection with early Dutch settlement and the location of Fort Orange
where Indians of all nations and tongues assembled for intercourse with
the government. (See Pachonahellick.) Dr. Schoolcraft wrote, without any
authority that I have been able to find, _Tawasentha_ as the name of the
mound on which Fort Orange was erected, with the meaning, "Place of the
many dead," adding that the Mohawks had a village near and buried their
dead on this hill; a pure fiction certainly in connection with the period
to which he referred. The Mohawks never had a village here, nor owned a
foot of land east of the Helderberg range. The Mahicans were the owners
and occupants, but neither Mahicans or Mohawks would have permitted the
Dutch to build a fort on their burial ground. Heckewelder wrote, in his
"Indian Nations," "_Gaaschtinick,_ since called by the name of Norman's
Kill," and recited a Delaware tradition, with the coloring of truth, that
that nation consented there, under advisement of the Dutch, to take the
rank of women, _i. e._ a nation without authority to make war or sell
lands. The tradition is worthless. The Dutch did make "covenants of
friendship" here with several tribes as early as 1625 (Doc Hist. N. Y.
iii, 51), but none of the character stated. All the tribes were treated
as equals in trade and friendship. Whatever of special favor there was
was with the Mahicans among whom they located. The first treaty,
"offensive and defensive," which was made was by the English with the
Five Nations in 1664-5. The Mahicans had then sold their lands and
retired to the Housatenuk, and the Mohawks and their alliant nations had
become the dominant power at Albany.

Nachtenak is quoted as the Mahican name of Waterford, or rather as the
name of the point of land now occupied by that city, lying between the
Mohawk and the Hudson. Probably the same as the following:

Mathahenaak, "being a part of a parcel of land called the foreland of the
Half-Moon, and by the Indians Mathahenaack, being on the north of the
fourth branch or fork of the Mohawk." _Matha_ is an orthography of
_Macha_ (Stockbridge, _Naukhu_; Del. _Lechau_), with locative _ûk,_ "At
the fork"--now or otherwise known as Half-Moon Point, Waterford.

Quahemiscos is a record form of the name of what is now known as Long
Island, near Waterford.

Monemius Island, otherwise Cohoes Island and Haver Island, just below
Cohoes Falls, the site of Monemius's Castle, or residence of Monemius or
Moenemines, a sachem of the Mahicans in 1630, so entered on Van
Rensselaer's map. Haver is Dutch, "Oat straw." (See Haverstraw.)

Saratoga, now so written, was, primarily, the name of a specific place
extended to a district of country lying on both sides of the Hudson,
described, in a deed from the Indian owners to Cornelis van Dyk, Peter
Schuyler, and others, July 26, 1683, as "A tract of land called
_Sarachtogoe_" (by the Dutch), "or by the Maquas _Ochseratongue_ or
_Ochsechrage,_ and by the Machicanders _Amissohaendiek,_ situated to the
north of Albany, beginning at the utmost limits of the land bought from
the Indians by Goose Gerritse and Philip Pieterse Schuyler deceased,
there being" (_i. e._ the bound-mark) "a kil called _Tioneendehouwe,_
and reaching northward on both sides of the river to the end of the
lands of _Sarachtoge,_ bordering on a kil, on the east side of the river,
called _Dionandogeha_ and having the same length on the west side to
opposite the kil (Tioneendehouwe), and reaching westward through the
woods as far as the Indian proprietors will show, and the same distance
through the woods on the east side." The boundary streams of this tract
are now known as the Hoosick (Tioneendehowe), and the Batten Kill
(Dionondehowe), as written on the map of the patent. The boundaries
included, specifically, the section of the Hudson known as "The Still
Water," [FN-1] noted from the earliest Dutch occupation as the Great
Fishing Place and Beaver Country, two elements the most dear to the
Indian heart and the most contributive to his support, inciting wars
for possession. Specifically, too, the locative of the name, from the
language of the deed and contemporary evidence, would seem to have been
on the east side of the river--"the end of the lands of Sarachtoge,
bordering on a kil on the east side of the river, called," etc., a place
which Governor Dongan selected, in 1685, on which to settle the Mohawk
Catholic converts, who had been induced to remove to Canada, as a
condition of their return, and which he described as a tract of land
"called Serachtogue, lying upon Hudson's River, about forty miles above
Albany," and for the protection of which Fort Saratoga was erected in
1709; noted by Governor Cornbury in 1703, as "A place called Saractoga,
which is the northernmost settlement we have"; topographically described,
in later years, as "a broad interval on the east side of the river, south
of Batten Kill," and as including the mouth of the kill and lake
Cossayuna. (Col. Hist. N. Y.; Fitch's Survey; Kalm's Travels.) On the
destruction of the fort, in the war of 1746, the settlement was removed
to the opposite side of the river and the name went with it, but to
which it had no legitimate title. (See Kayauderossa.)

Apparently the Mahican name, _Amissohaendiek,_ is the oldest. It carries
with it a history in connection with the wars between the Mohawks and
the Mahicans. At the sale of the lands, the Mahicans who were present
renounced claim to compensation "because in olden time the lands belonged
to them, before the Maquas took it from them." [FN-2] (Col. Hist. N. Y.,
xiii, 537.) It is this section of Hudson's River that the only claim was
ever made and conceded of Mohawk possession by conquest.

The Mohawk name, _Ochseratongue_ or _Ochsechrage,_ became, in the course
of its transmission, _Osarague_ and _Saratoga,_ and in the latter form,
without reference to its antecedents, was translated by the late Henry
R. Schoolcraft "From _Assarat,_ 'Sparkling water,' and _Oga,_ 'place,'
'the place of the sparkling water,'" the reference being to the mineral
springs, one of which. "High Rock," was, traditionally, known to the
Indians, who, it is said, conveyed Sir William Johnson thither, in 1767,
to test the medicinal virtues of the water; but, while the tradition may
recite a fact the translation is worthless.

With a view to obtain a satisfactory explanation of the record names,
the writer submitted them to the late eminent Iroquoian philologist,
Horatio Hale, M. A., of Clinton, Ontario, Canada, and to the eminent
Algonquian linguist, the late Dr. D. G. Brinton, of Philadelphia. In
reply, Mr. Hale wrote: . . . "Your letter has proved very acceptable,
as the facts you present have thrown light on an interesting question
which has heretofore perplexed me. I have vainly sought to discover the
origin and meaning of the name Saratoga. My late distinguished friend,
L. H. Morgan, was, it seems, equally unsuccessful. In the appendix of
local names added to his admirable 'League of the Iroquois,' Saratoga
is given in the Indian form as _Sharlatoga,_ with the addition,
'signification lost.' There can be no doubt that the word, as we have
it, and indeed as Morgan heard it, is, as you suggest, much abbreviated
and corrupted. One of the ancient forms, however, which you give from
the old Dutch authorities, seems to put us at once on the right track.
This form is _Ochsechrage._ The 'digraph' _ch_ in this word evidently
represents the hard guttural aspirate, common to both the Dutch and the
German languages. This aspirate is of frequent occurrence in the Iroquois
dialects, but it is not a radical element. As I have elsewhere said, it
appears and disappears as capriciously as the common _h_ in the speech
of the south of England. In etymologies it may always be disregarded.
Omitting it, we have the well-known word _Oserage_--in modern Iroquois
orthography _Oserake,_ meaning 'At the beaver-dam.' It is derived from
_osera,_ 'beaver-dam,' with the locative particle _ge_ or _ke_ affixed.

"In Iroquois _r_ and _l_ are interchangeable, and _s_ frequently sounds
like _sh._ Thus we can understand how in Cartier's orthography _Oserake_
(pronounced with an aspirate) became _Hochelaga,_ the well-known
aboriginal name of what is now Montreal. That this name meant simply
'At the beaver-dam' is not questioned. It is rather curious, though not
surprising, that two such noted Indian names as _Saratoga_ and
_Hochelaga_ should have the same origin. In _Ochseratongue_ the name is
lengthened by an addition which is so evidently corrupted that I hesitate
to explain it. I may say, however, that I suspect it to be a 'verbalized'
form. It may possibly be derived from the verb _atona,_ 'to become' (in
its perfect tense _atonk_), added to _osera,_ in which case the word
would mean, 'where a beaver-dam has been forming,' or, as we should
express it in English, 'where the beavers have been making a dam.'

"With regard to the Mahican name _Amissohaendiek_ or _Amissohaendick_
(whichever it is) I cannot say much, my knowledge of the Algonquin
dialects not being sufficient to warrant me in venturing on etymologies.
I remark, however, that 'beaver' in Mahican, as in several other
Algonquin dialects, is _Amisk_ or some variant of that word. This would
apparently account for the first two syllables of the name. In Iroquois
the word for 'beaver-dam' 'has no connection with the word 'beaver,' but
it may be otherwise in Mahican." . . .

Dr. Brinton wrote:

. . . "I have little doubt but that the Mahican term is practically a
translation of the Iroquois name. It certainly begins with the element
_Amik, Amisk_ or _Amisque,_ 'Beaver,' and terminates with the locative
_ck_ or _k._ The intermediate portion I am not clear about. There is
probably considerable garbling of the middle syllables, and this obscures
their forms. In a general way, however, it means 'Place where beavers
live,' or 'are found.'"

Father Le June wrote _Amisc-ou,_ "Beaver," an equivalent of _Amis-so_ in
the text. Dr. Trumbull wrote: "_Amisk,_ a generic name for beaver-kind,
has been retained in the principal Algonquian dialects." The district
was a part of Ochsaraga, "The beaver-hunting country of the Confederate
Indians," conquered by them about 1624. The evolution from
_Ochsera-tongue_ (deed of 1683) appears in Serachtogue (Dongan, 1685);
Serasteau (contemporary French); Saractoga (Cornbury, 1703); Saratoga
(modern). The _Ossarague,_ noted by Father Jogues, in 1646, as a famous
fishing-place, is now assigned to Schuylerville.

Aside from its linguistic associations, the Batten Kill is an interesting
stream. It has two falls, one of which, near the Hudson, is seventy-five
feet and preserves in its modern name, _Dionandoghe,_ its Mohawk name,
Ti-oneenda-houwe, for the meaning of which see Hoosick.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] "At a place called the Still Water, so named for that the water
 passeth so slowly as not to be discovered, yet at a little distance both
 above and below is disturbed and rageth as in a sea, occasioned by great
 rocks and great falls therein." (Col. Hist. N. Y., x, 194.)

 [FN-2] The war in which the Mahicans lost and the Mohawks gained
 possession of the lands here occurred in 1627, as stated in Dutch
 records (Doc. Hist. N. Y., iii, 48), sustained by the deed to King
 George in 1701. (Doc. Hist. N. Y., i, 773.) There was no conquest on
 the Hudson south of Cohoes Falls.


Sacondaga, quoted as the name of the west branch of the Hudson, is not
the name of the stream but of its mouth or outlet at Warrensburgh,
Warren County. It is from Mohawk generic _Swe'ken,_ the equivalent of
Lenape _Sacon_ (Zeisb.), meaning "Outlet," or "Mouth of a river," "Pouring
out," and _-daga,_ a softened form of _-take,_ "At the," the composition
meaning, literally, "At the outlet" or mouth of a river. (Hale.)
_Ti-osar-onda,_ met in connection with the stream, means "Branch" or
"Tributory stream." (Hewitt.) The reference may have been to the stream
as a branch of the Hudson, or to some other stream. The stream comes
down from small lakes and streams in Lewis and Hamilton counties, and
is the principal northwestern affluent of the Hudson.

Scharon, Scarron, Schroon, orthographies of the name now conferred on a
lake and its outlet, and on a mountain range and a town in Essex County,
is said to have been originally given to the lake by French officers in
honor of the widow Scarron, the celebrated Madam Maintenon of the reign
of Louis XVI. (Watson.) The present form, _Schroon,_ is quite modern. On
Sauthier's map the orthography is Scaron. The lake is about ten miles
long and forms a reservoir of waters flowing from a number of lakes and
springs in the Adirondacks. Its outlet unites with the Hudson on the east
side at Warrensburgh, Warren County, and has been known for many years
as the East Branch of Hudson's River. The Mohawk-Iroquoian name of the
stream at one place is of record _At-a-te'ton,_ from _Ganawate^cton_
(Bruyas), meaning "Rapid river," "Swift current." (J. B. N. Hewitt.) A
little valley at the junction of the stream with the Hudson at
Warrensburgh, dignified by the name of "Indian Pass," bears the record
name of _Teohoken,_ from Iroquois generic _De-ya-oken,_ meaning "Where
it forks," or "Where the stream forks or enters the Hudson." (J. B. N.
Hewitt.) The little valley is described as "a picture of beauty and
repose in strong contrast with the rugged hills around." (Lossing.)

Oi-o-gue, the name given by the Mohawks to Father Jogues in 1646, at Lake
George, to what we now fondly call Hudson's River, is fully explained in
another connection. The stream has its sources among the highest peaks
of the Adirondacks, the most quoted springlet being that in what is known
as "Adirondack or Indian Pass," a deep and rugged gorge between the steep
slopes of Mt. Mclntyre and the cliffs of Wallface Mountain, in Essex
County. The level of this gorge is 2,937 feet above tide. [FN-1] The
highest lakelet-head sources, however, are noted in Verplanck Colvin's
survey of the Adirondack region as Lake Moss and Lake Tear-of-the-clouds
on Mount Marcy, [FN-2] the former having an elevation of 4,312 feet above
sea-level and the latter 4,326 feet, "the loftiest water-mirror of the
stars" in the State. The little streams descending from these lakes,
gathering strength from other small lakes and springlets, flow rapidly
into Warren County, where they receive the Sacondaga and Schroon. Between
Warrensburgh and Glen's Falls the stream sweeps, in tortuous course with
a wealth of rapids, eastward among the lofty hills of the Luzerne [FN-3]
range of mountains, and at Glen's Falls descends about sixty feet,
passing over a precipice, in cataract, in flood seasons, about nine
hundred feet long, and then separates into three channels by rocks piled
in confusion. In times of low water there is, on the south side of the
gorge, a perpendicular descent of about forty feet. Below, the channels
unite and in one deep stream flow on gently between the grained cliffs
of fine black marble, which rises in some places from thirty to seventy
feet. At the foot of the fall the current is divided by a small island
which is said to bear on its flat rock surface a petrifaction having the
appearance of a big snake, which may have been regarded by the Mohawks
with awe as the personification of the spirit of evil, according to the
Huron legend, "_Onniare jotohatienn tiotkon,_ The demon takes the figure
of a snake." (Bruyas.) Under the rock is a cave over which the serpent
lies as a keeper, extending from one channel to the other and which, as
well as the snake, comes down to us embalmed in Cooper's "Last of the
Mohegans," though some visitors with clear heads have failed to discover
the snake. In times of flood the cave is filled with water and all the
dividing rocks below the fall are covered, presenting one vast foaming
sheet.

At Sandy Hill the river-channel curves to the south and pursues a broken
course to what are known as Baker's Falls, where the descent is between
seventy and eighty feet--primarily nearly as picturesque as at Glen's
Falls, untouched by Cooper's pen. The bend to the south at Sandy Hill is
substantially the head of the valley of Hudson's River. Throughout the
mountainous region above that point several Indian names are quoted by
writers in obscure orthographies and very doubtful interpretations, the
most tangible, aside from those which have been noticed, being that which
is said to have been the name of Glen's Falls, but was actually the name
of the very large district known as _Kay-au-do-ros-sa._ In Mohawk, Sandy
Hill would probably be called _Gea-di-go,_ "Beautiful plain," but it has
no Indian name of record. The village stands upon a high sandy plain. It
has its traditionary Indian story, of course; in this section of country
it is easy to coin traditions of the wars of the Mohawks, the Hurons, and
the Algonquians; they interest but do not harm any one.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] This famous Pass is partly in the town of Newcomb and partly in
 the town of North Elba, Essex County. Wall-face, on the west side, is
 a perpendicular precipice 800 to 1,000 feet high, and Mt. Mclntyre rises
 over 3,000 feet. The gorge is seldom traversed, even adventurous
 tourists are repelled by its ruggedness.

 [FN-2] By Colvin's survey Mount Marcy has an elevation of 5,344.411 feet
 "above mean-tide level in the Hudson." It is the highest mountain in the
 State. Put four Butter Hills on the top of each other and the elevation
 would be only a few hundred feet higher.

 [FN-3] French, "Spanish Trefoil." "Having a three-lobed extremity or
 extremities, as a cross." Botanically, plants having three leaves, as
 white clover, etc. Topographically, a mountain having three points or
 extremities.



[Illustration: GLENS FALLS: ABOVE LEATHERSTOCKING COVE.]



Kay-au-do-ros-sa (modern), _Kancader-osseras, Kanicader-oseras_ (primary),
the name given as that of a stream of water, of a district of country,
and of a range of mountains, was originally the name of the stream now
known as Fish Creek, [FN] the outlet of Saratoga Lake, and signifies,
literally, "Where the lake mouths itself out." Horatio Hale wrote me:
"Lake, in Iroquois, is, in the French missionary spelling, _Kaniatare,_
the word being sounded as in Italian. _Mouth_ is _Osa,_ whence (writes
the Rev. J. A. Cuoq in his Lexique de la langue Iroquois), _Osara,_ mouth
of a river, 'boudhe d'un fleure, embouchure d'une riviere.' This word
combined would give either _Kauicatarosa_ or _Kaniatarossa,_ with the
meaning of 'Lake mouth,' applicable to the mouth of a lake, or rather,
according to the verbalizing habit of the language, 'the place where the
lake disembogues,' literally, 'mouths itself out.'" To which J. B. N.
Hewitt added the explanation, "Or flood-lands of the lake--the overflow
of the lake."

                          * * * * *

 [FN] "About Kayaderossres Creek and the lakes in that quarter." "The
 chief tract of hunting land we have left, called Kayaderossres, with a
 great quantity of land about it." (Doc. Hist. N. Y., ii, 110.) The
 stream drains an extensive district of country, flows into and becomes
 the outlet of Saratoga Lake, and is now known as Fish Creek and Fish
 Kill, a very cheap substitute for the expressive Mohawk term.


Adirondacks, or Ratirontaks, a name now improperly applied to the
mountainous district of northern New York, is said to have been primarily
bestowed by the Iroquois on a tribe occupying the left bank of the St.
Lawrence above the present site of Quebec, who were called by the French
Algonquins specifically, as representatives of a title which had come to
be of general application to a group of tribes speaking radically the
same language. [FN-1] The term is understood to mean, "They eat trees,"
_i. e._ people Who eat the bark of certain trees for food, presumably
from the climatic difficulty in raising corn in the latitude in which
they lived. [FN-2] Horatio Hale analyzed the name: "From _Adi,_ 'they';
_aronda,_ 'tree,' and _ikeks,_ 'eat.'" The name was not that of the
district, nor is it convertible with _Algonquin_. The later is a French
rendering of _Algoumquin,_ from _A'goumak,_ "On the other side of the
river," _i. e._ opposite their neighbors lower down. (Trumbull.)
Schoolcraft gave substantially the same interpretation from the Chippewa,
"_Odis-qua-guma,_ 'People at the end of the waters,'" making its
application specific to the Chippewas as the original Algonquins, instead
of the Ottawas. The accepted interpretation, "Country of mountains and
forests," is correct only in that that it is descriptive of the country.
The record names of the district are _Cough-sagh-raga_ and
_Canagariarchio_, the former entered on Pownal's map with the addition
"Or the beaver--hunting country of the Confederate Indians," and the
latter entered in the deed from the Five Nations to the King in 1701.
(Col, Hist. N. Y., iv, 909.) _Cough-sagh-raga_ is now written _Koghsarage_
(Elliot) and _Kohserake_ (modern), and signifies "Winter" or "Winter
land"; but the older name, _Cana-gariarc-hio,_ means, "The beaver-hunting
country."  [FN-3] It is not expected that this explanation will affect
the continuance, by conference, of _Adirondacks_ as the name of the
district; but it may lead to the replanting of the much more expressive
Iroquoian title, _Kohsarake,_ on some hill-top in the ancient wilderness.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The specific tribe called Algonquins by the French, were seated,
 in 1738, near Montreal, and described as a remnant of "A nation the most
 warlike, the most polished, and the most attached to the French." Their
 armorial bearing, or totem, was an evergreen oak. (Doc. Hist. N. Y., i,
 16.) It is claimed that they were principally Ottawas, residing on the
 Ottawa River. (Schoolcraft.) The primary location of the language is
 only measurably involved in the first application of the name, the honor
 being claimed for the Chippewa, the Cree, and the Lenni-Lenape. The
 Eastern Algonquins substituted for the Iroquois Adirondacks,
 _Mihtukméchaick_ (Williams) with the same meaning.

 [FN-2] The bark of the chestnut, the walnut, and of other trees was
 dried, macerated, and rolled in the fat of bears or other animals, and
 probably formed a palatable and a healthful diet. Presumably the eating
 of the bark of trees was not confined to a particular tribe.

 [FN-3] "_Coughsaghrage,_ or the Beaver-Hunting Country of the Confederate
 Indians. The Confederates, called by the French Iroquois, surrendered
 this country to the English at Albany, on the 19th day of July, 1701;
 and their action was confirmed the 14th of September, 1724. It belongs
 to New York, and is full of Swamps, Lakes, Rivers, Drowned Lands; a Long
 Chain of Snowy Mountains which are seen. Lake Champlain runs thro' the
 whole tract. North and South. This country is not only uninhabited, but
 even unknown except towards the South where several grants have been
 made since the Peace."

 So wrote Governor Pownal on his map of 1775. There is no question that
 Coughsaghraga means "Winter." It may also mean "At the Beaver-dam," or
 "In the country of Beaver-dams." _Kohseraka_ may be a form of _Hochelaga_
 or _Ochseraga._ _Osera_ means "Beaver-dam" as well as "Winter," wrote
 Horatio Hale. (See Saratoga.) In explanation of _Canagariachio_ Mr. Hale
 wrote: "_Kanagariarchio_ is a slightly corrupted form of the Iroquois
 word _Kanna'kari-kario,_ which means simply 'Beaver.' It is a descriptive
 term compounded of _Kannagare,_ 'Stick' or club, _Kakarien,_ To bite,'
 and _Kario,_ 'Wild animal.' It is not the most common Iroquois word for
 Beaver, which, in the Mohawk dialect is _Tsionuito,_ or _Djonuito._ That
 the word should be understood to mean 'The Beaver-Hunting Country,' is
 in accordance with Indian usage."



                          * * * * *


                        On the Mohawk.


Mohawk, the river so called--properly "the Mohawk's River," or river of
the Mohawks--rises near the centre of the State and reaches the Hudson
at Cohoes Falls. Its name preserves that by which the most eastern nation
of the Iroquoian confederacy, the Six Nations, is generally known in
history--the Maquaas of the early Dutch. The nation, however, did not
give that name to the stream except in the sense of occupation as the
seat of their possessions; to them it was the _O-hyoⁿhi-yo'ge,_ "Large,
chief or principal river" (Hewitt); written by Van Curler in 1635,
_Vyoge_ and _Oyoghi,_ and by Bruyas "_Ohioge,_ a la riviere," now written
_Ohio_ as the name of one of the rivers of the west, nor did they apply
the word Mohawk to themselves; that title was conferred upon them by
their Algonquian enemies, as explained by Roger Williams, who wrote in
1646, "_Mohowaug-suck,_ or _Mauquawog,_ from _Moho,_ 'to eat,' the
cannibals or men-eaters," the reference being to the custom of the nation
in eating the bodies of enemies who might fall into its hands, a custom
of which the Huron nations, of which it was a branch, seem to have been
especially guilty. To themselves they gave the much more pleasant name
_Canniengas,_ from _Kannia,_ "Flint," Which they adopted as their
national emblem and delineated it in their official signatures,
signifying, in that connection, "People of the Flint." When and why they
adopted this national emblem is a matter of conjecture. Presumably it
was generations prior to the incoming of Europeans and from the discovery
of the fire-producing qualities of the flint, which was certainly known
to them and to other Indian nations [FN-1] in pre-historic times. When
the flint and steel were introduced to them they added the latter to
their emblem, generally delineated it on all papers of national
importance, and called it _Kannien,_ "batte-feu," as written by Bruyas,
a verbal form of _Kannia,_ "a flint," or fire-stone, the verb describing
a new method of "striking fire out of a flint," or a new instrument for
striking fire, and a new emblem of their own superiority springing from
their ancient emblem. The Delawares called them _Sank-hikani,_ [FN-2] or
"The fire-striking people," from Del. _Sank_ or _San,_ "stone" (from
_Assin_), and _-hikan,_ "an implement," obviously a flint-stone implement
for striking fire, or, as interpreted by Heckewelder, "A fire-lock," and
by Zeisberger, "A fire-steel."

The French called them _Agnié_ and _Agniérs,_ presumably derived from
_Canienga_ (Huron, _Yanyenge_). The Dutch called them _Mahakuas_, by
contraction _Maquaas,_ from Old Algonquian _Magkwah_ (Stockbridge,
_Mquoh_), Bear, "He devours, he eats." As a nation they were Bears,
tearing, devouring, eating, enemies who fell into their hands. Bruyas
wrote in the Huron dialect, "_Okwari_, ourse (that is Bear);
_Ganniagwari,_ grand ourse" (grand, glorious, superb, Bear), and in
another connection, "It is the name of the Agniers," the characteristic
type of the nation. They were divided in three ruling totemic tribes,
the Tortoise (_Anowara_), the Bear (_Ochquari_), and the Wolf (_Okwaho_),
and several sub-tribes, as the Beaver, the Elk, the Serpent, the
Porcupine, and the Fox, as shown by deeds of record, of which the most
frequently met is that of the Beaver. On Van der Donck's map of 1656,
the names of four tribal castles are entered: _Carenay, Ganagero,
Schanatisse,_ and _t' Jonnontego._ In the recently recovered Journal of
a trip to the Mohawk country, by Arent van Curler, in the winter of
1634-5, the names are _Ouekagoncka, Ganagere, Sohanidisse,_ and _Tenotoge_
or _Tenotogehooge._ In 1643, Father Isaac Jogues, in French notation,
wrote the name of the first, _Osseruehon,_ and that of the last,
_Te-ononte-ogen._ Rev. Megapolensis, the Dutch minister at Fort Orange,
wrote, in 1644, the name of the first _Assarue,_ the second _Banigiro,_
and the last _Thenondiago._ On a map republished in the Third Annual
Report of the State Historian, copied from a map published in Holland
in 1666, the first is called _Caneray_ (Van der Donck's _Carenay_), and
the second, _Canagera._ [FN-3] The several names refer in all cases to
the same castles tribally, in some cases, apparently, by the name of a
specific topographical feature near which the castles were located, and
in some cases, apparently, by the name of the tribe. Cramoisy, in his
Relation of 1645-6, referring to the visit of Father Jogues to the
Mohawks, wrote: "They arrived at their first small village, called
_Oneugiouré,_ formerly _Osserrion._" (Relations, 29: 51), showing very
clearly that those two names referred to one and the same castle. What
_Oneugiouré_ stands for certainly, cannot be stated, though it seems to
read easily from _Ohnaway_ (Cuoq), "Current, swift river," indicating
that it may have referred to the long rapids. [FN-4] Chief W. H. Holmes,
of the Bureau of Ethnology, wrote me: "According to our best expert
authority, an Iroquoian, _Onekagoncka_ signifies 'At the junction of the
waters,' and _Osserueñon, Osserrion, Assarue,_ etc., signifies 'At the
beaver-dam.'" Accepting these interpretations, the particular place where
the two names seem to come together is at the mouth of Aurie's Creek
"where it falls into Mohawk's river." (See Oghracke.) As generic terms,
however, they would be applicable at any place where the features were
met and would only become specific here from other locative testimony,
which we seem to have.

The first castle or town was that of the Tortoise tribe; the second, that
of the Bear tribe; the third, that of the Beaver (probably), and the
fourth, that of the Wolf tribe. On Van der Donck's map there are four,
and Greenhalgh, in 1677, noted four. In a Schenectady paper of the same
year the names of two sachems are subscribed who acted "for themselves"
and as "the representatives of ye four Mohock's castles." The French
invaded the valley in 1666, and burned all the castles of the early
period, and the tribes retreated to the north side of river and
established themselves, the first at Caughnawaga; the second about one
and one-half miles west of the first; the third, west of the second, and
the fourth beyond the third, in their ancient order as Greenhalgh found
them in 1677. The French destroyed them again in 1693, [FN-5] and the
tribes returned to and rebuilt on the south side of the river in proximity
to their ancient seats. After the changes which had swept over the
nation, three castles are noted in later records--the "Upper" at
Canajohare, the "Lower" at the mouth of Schohare Creek, and the "Third"
on the Schohare some sixteen miles inland.

While the early castles were known to the Dutch traders prior to 1635,
and their locations marked, approximately, on their rude charts which
formed the basis of Van der Donck's and other early maps, it was not
until the recovery and publication in 1895, of Van Curler's Journal
[FN-6]that much was known concerning them prior to 1642-44, when the
Jesuit missionaries and the Dutch minister at Fort Orange, Rev.
Megapolensis, went into the field. Van Curler's Journal, supplemented by
the Relations of the Jesuit Fathers and Rev. Megapolensis's notes,
enables us now to almost look in upon the early homes of the "barbarians,"
as they were called.

The Mohawks were the most important factor in the "Five [Six] Nations
Confederacy," particularly from the standpoint of their proximity to and
relations with the Dutch and the English governments, primarily in trade
and later as alliants offensive and defensive under treaty of 1664 and
more definitely under treaty of 1683. (Doc. Hist. N. Y., i, 576.) Their
written history is graven in no uncertain colors on the valley which
still bears their name, as well as on northeastern New York, marred
though it may be by claims to pre-historical supremacy which cannot be
maintained. When Van Curler visited them the nation was at peace, and the
occupants of the towns and villages engaged in the duties of home life.
He wrote that "Most of the people were out 'hunting for deer and bear";
that "the houses were full of corn and beans"; that he "saw maize--yes,
in some of the houses more than three hundred bushels." He added that he
was hospitably entertained, was fed on "pumpkins cooked and baked,
roasted turkeys, venison and bear's meat," and altogether seems to have
fared sumptuously. Rev. Megapolensis wrote of them, that though they were
cruel to their enemies, they were very friendly to the Dutch. "We go with
them into the woods; we meet with each other, sometimes at an hour's walk
from any house, and think no more of it than if we met with Christians."
The dark side of their character may be seen in a single quotation from
Father Jogues's narrative, as related by Father Lalemant: "Happily for
the Father the very time when he was entering the gates, a messenger
arrived who brought news that a warrior and his comrades were returning
victorious, bringing twenty Abanaqois prisoners. Behold them all joyful;
they leave the poor Father; they burn, they flay, they roast, they eat
those poor victims with public rejoicings." Gentle and affable in peace,
with many evidences of a rude civilization, they were indeed "Demons in
war."

Faithful in their labors among them were the Jesuit Fathers. They were
men who were ready to suffer torture and death in the propagation of
their faith, as several of them did. The conflict of those heroes of the
Cross in the valley of the Mohawk, inaugurated by the capture and
martyrdom of Father Jogues and his companion, Rene Goupil, in 1646, did
not deter them; the wars of the nation with the French aided them. So
successful were they that many of the nation were drawn off to Canada
and became zealous partisans of the French and a scourge to English
settlements, especially emphasized in the massacre at Schenectady in
February, 1689-90. Those who remained true to the English became no
longer "barbarians" in the full sense of that word, but "Praying Maquas."
The subsequent story of the nation may be gleaned from the pages of
history. At the close of the Revolution the integrity of the Six Nations
had been effectually broken, and the castles of the Mohawks swept from
the valley proper. The history, of the latter nation especially, needs
to be studied, not in the wild glamour of fiction, but in the realm of
fact, as that of an original people, native to the soil of the New World,
clasping hands with the era of the origin of man; a people who, when they
were first met, had borrowed nothing, absolutely nothing, from the
civilizations or the languages of the Old World--the _Ougwe-howe,_ the
"real men" of the Mohawk Valley.

The locations of the castles or principal towns of the nation, as noted
in Van Curler's Journal, has given rise to considerable discussion,
particularly in regard to the location of the first of the series and
its identity under the different names by which it was called. Van Curler
was not an "ignorant Hollander wandering around in the woods," as one
writer states; on the contrary, he was an educated man and one of the
best equipped men then in the country for the trip he had undertaken,
and instead of "wandering around in the woods," he was conducted by
Mohawk guides. He wrote that he left Fort Orange in company with
Jeronimus la Crock, William Thomasson, and five Mohawks as guides and
bearers, "between nine and ten o'clock in the morning," December 12,
1634, and after walking "mostly northwest about eight miles" (Dutch),
stopped "at half-past twelve in the evening" (p. m.) "at a little
hunters' cabin near the stream that runs into their land, of the name
of Vyoge." His hours' travel and his miles' travel to this point were
either loosely stated in his manuscript or were misread by the
translator. [FN-7] A Dutch mile is one and one-quarter hours' walk and
the equivalent of three and one-half English miles and a fraction over.
Van Curler no doubt estimated his miles by this standard and not as
correct measurements of rough Indian paths. He certainly did not walk
eight Dutch miles in three hours. Twenty-four English miles would have
taken him to a point northwest of the later Schenectady stockade, which,
in 1690, was counted as twenty-four English miles from Fort Orange by
the road as then traveled. The "little hunters' cabin" at which he
stopped and which he located "near the Vyoge," he explained in his notes
of his second day's travel, as "one hour's walk" from the place where he
crossed the stream, which would have taken him to a crossing place west
of Schenectady, noted in a French Itinerary of 1757 as about one and
one-quarter leagues west of the then fort at that settlement, and,
presumably, by the canal survey of 1792, as at the first rift west of
the beginning of deep water one and one-half miles (English) east of the
rift referred to, from which point the survey gave the distance "to the
deep water at or above the mouth of Schohare creek" as twenty-five miles.
In going to, or from, the crossing-place he "passed Mohawk villages"
where "the ice drifted fast," and gave his later travel as "mostly along
the kill that ran swiftly," indicating very clearly that he passed along
the rapids. Why he crossed the Mohawk when there was a path on the south
side, is explained by Pearson's statement (Hist. Schenectady) that the
path on the north side "was the best and most frequently traveled path
to the Mohawk castles," and held that reputation for many years. It was
a trunk line from the Hudson with many connecting paths. In considering
his miles' travel the survey of 1792 may be safely referred to. [FN-8]
His miles' travel, which he wrote as "eleven" (Dutch) he wrote on his
return as "ten," which, counted as standard Dutch, would have been about
thirty-five English miles; if counted by General John S. Clark's average
of shrinkage, about thirty, which would have taken him from the hunters'
cabin to a point two or three miles west of the mouth of Schohare Creek.

Referring particularly to his Journal: On the morning of the 13th, at
three o'clock, he left the "little hunters' cabin" where he passed the
night, spent one hour in walking to the crossing-place, crossed "in the
dark," resumed his march on the north side "mostly along the aforesaid
kill that ran swiftly," and after marching ten miles arrived, "at one
o'clock in the evening" (p. m.) "at a little house half a mile" (Dutch)
"from their First Castle." When he stopped he was so exhausted by the
rough road that he could scarcely move his feet, and hence remained at
the "little house" until the next morning, when he recrossed the Mohawk
to the south side "on the ice which had frozen over the kill during the
night," and "after going half-a-mile" (Dutch), or say one and one-half
English, arrived "at their First Castle," which he found "built on a high
mountain." It contained "thirty-six houses in rows like streets." The
houses were "one hundred, ninety or eighty paces long," and were no doubt
palisaded as he called the castle a "fort." The name of the castle, he
wrote later, was _Onekagoncka._ The crossing was the only one which he
made to the south side of the Mohawk in going west. _Where,_ aside from
a fair computation of his miles' travel, _did he cross?_ Certainly he did
not cross on the ice which had frozen over the rapids east of the mouth
of Schohare Creek, for they were never known to freeze over in one night,
if at all. Certainly he did not cross east of the rapids, for they
extended three and one-half miles east of the mouth of the creek.
Obviously, if he crossed Schohare Creek on the ice and "did not know it,"
as one writer suggests, he must have crossed it in _going to the castle,_
which would surely locate the castle _west_ of the stream. There is not
the slightest notice of the stream in his Journal, nor is there any place
for it in the harmony of his narrative. The tenable conclusion, from the
comparison of his miles and from the natural facts, is that he crossed
"on the ice" which had frozen over the deep water "at or above the mouth
of Schohare Creek"; that his march took him to the vicinity of Aurie's
Creek, or substantially to the castle which Father Jogues called
_Osseruenon,_ the site of which is now marked by the Society of Jesus
with the Shrine, "Our Lady of Martyrs," whether that castle was east or
west of Aurie's Creek, evidences of Indian occupation having been found
on a hill on the west side of the creek as well as on a hill on the east
side. [FN-9] These evidences, however, prove very little in determining
the location of a particular castle three hundred years ago; they only
become important when sustained by distances from given points or by
natural features of record.

The locative conclusion stated above is more positively emphasized by
counting Van Curler's miles' travel and his landmarks in going west from
_Onekagoncka,_ and by the natural features which he noted in his Journal.
Leaving _Onekagoncka,_ he wrote that he walked "half a mile" (Dutch) "on
the ice" which had frozen over the kill, or say one and one-half English
miles, and in that distance passed "a village of six houses of the name
of _Canowarode._" It was near the river obviously. Walking on the ice
"another half mile" (Dutch), he passed "a village of twelve houses named
_Senatsycrossy._" After walking "another mile or mile and a half" on the
ice, he passed "great stretches of flat lands" and came to a castle which
he first called _Medatshet,_ and later _Canagere,_ which he denominated
"The Second Castle." His distances traveling west "on the ice" were
evidently more correctly computed than they were on his march on the
rough path "along the kill that ran swiftly." His miles from _Onekagoncka_
to _Canagere_ are given as two and a half (Dutch) or about nine miles
English. The actual distance is supposed to have been about eight. He
found the castle "built on a hill without any palisades or any defence."
He located it east of Canajohare Creek, a stream which has never lost its
identity. When Van Curler visited the castle it contained "sixteen
houses, fifty, sixty, seventy or eighty paces long."

Detained in this castle by a heavy fall of rain which broke up the
streams--the "January thaw" of 1635 in the Mohawk Valley--Van Curler
resumed his journey on the 20th, and "after marching a mile" (Dutch),
came to Canajohare Creek which he was obliged to ford. After crossing
and walking "half a mile" (Dutch), he came to what he called the "Third
Castle of the name of _Sohanidisse,_" later written by him _Rohanadisse,_
and by Van der Donck _Schanatisse,_ suggesting the name of the hill on
which it stood, which Van Curler described as "very high." It contained
"thirty-two houses like the others"; was not palisaded. The very high
hill, and the flat lands which he referred to, remain.

On the 21st, _before_ reaching the second stream which he noted later
as having crossed, he wrote that "half a mile" _west_ of Canajohare Creek
he came to a village of "nine houses of the name of _Osquage,_" which
gave name to the stream now known as the _Otsquage,_ which he also called
_Okquage_ and _Okwahohage,_ "Wolves"--a village of the Wolf tribe. On the
23d he forded the Otsquage, and after going "half a mile" (Dutch) _west_
of that stream, came "to a village named _Cawaoge._" It had fourteen
houses and stood "on a very high hill." On his return trip he wrote the
name _Nawaoga;_ on old maps it is _Canawadage,_ and has since 1635 been
known as the _Nowadage_ or Fort Plain Creek. _He did not cross this
stream,_ but after stopping at the village for a short time moved on "by
land," presumably inland either north or south, and "going another mile"
came to the "Fourth Castle," which he called _Tenotoge_ and _Tenotohage,_
and Father Jogues called _Te-ouonte-ogén,_ and also "the furthest castle."
It was no doubt the principal castle of the Wolf tribe, strongly palisaded
to defend the western approach to the seat of the nation, as was
_Onekagoncka_ to guard the east. It was, he wrote, composed of fifty-five
houses like the others. It stood in a valley evidently, probably on the
bank of the creek, as he wrote that the stream (Otsquaga) which he had
crossed in the morning "ran past" the castle; that he saw on the opposite
(east) "bank" of the stream "a good many houses filled with corn and
beans," and also extensive flat lands. Further than this topographical
description the location of the castle cannot be determined. [FN-10] Van
Curler's miles to the castle from _Onekagonka,_ as nearly as can be
counted from his Journal, were about six Dutch or about twenty-one
English, or as General Clark counted Dutch miles, about eighteen English.
As Van Curler traveled "on the ice" for the most considerable part of the
way from _Onekagoncka,_ and followed necessarily the bend in the river
and diverged at times from the shore line, exact computation of his miles
cannot be made. General Clark located the castle at Spraker's Basin,
thirteen miles by rail west of Aurie's Creek. Van Curler located it _on
the west side of Otsquage Creek._ On Simeon DeWitt's map of survey of
patents in 1790 (Doc. Hist. N. Y., i, 420), the direct line from the west
side of the mouth of Otsquage Creek to the west side of the mouth of
Aurie's Creek is fifteen and three-tenths miles; following the bend in
the Mohawk, as Van Curler did, it is seventeen and one-half miles.
Granting that the lithographic reproduction of the map may vary from the
original, it nevertheless shows conclusively that _Onekagoncka_ must have
been located at or near Aurie's Creek, The suggestion that it was located
on a hill on the east side of Schohare Creek is untenable, as is also the
suggestion that it was at Klein, eight miles east of Schohare Creek.
There may have been villages at a later date at the places suggested, but
never one of the ancient castles. Counted from the east or from the west
there is no location that meets Van Curler's miles, or Father Jogues'
"leagues," so certainly as does Aurie's Creek. (See Oghracke.)

In addition to the locations of the ancient castles, Van Curler's notes
supply interesting evidence of the strength of the Mohawks when the Dutch
first met them, which was then at its highest known point in number and
in the number of their settlements, namely: Two hundred and twenty-five
"long houses" in castles and villages, without including villages on the
lower Mohawk "where the ice drifted fast," which he passed without
particular note, and those in villages or settlements which he did not
see. Two hundred and twenty-five houses were capable of holding and no
doubt did hold a very large number of people, packed as they were packed.
Father Pierron reported, in 1669, after the French invasion of 1666, that
he visited every week "six large villages, covering seven and one-half
leagues distance," around Caughnawaga where he was stationed. In almost
constant wars with the French, and with the Hurons and other Indian
tribes as allies of the French, their number had dwindled to an estimate
of eighty warriors in 1735. The story of their greatness and of their
decay is of the deepest interest. No student of American history can
dispense with its perusal and be well-informed in the events of the
pioneer era.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] Arent Van Curler, in 1635, in his "Journal of a Visit to the
 Seneca Country," wrote: "I was shown a parcel of flint-stones with which
 they make a fire when in the forest. These stones would do very well for
 flint-lock guns."

 Roger Williams wrote of the Narraganset Indians in 1643: "I have seen
 a native go into the woods with his hatchet, carrying a basket of corn
 with him, and stones to strike a fire." Father Le June wrote, in 1634:
 "They strike together two metallic stones, just as we do with a piece
 of flint and iron or steel. . . . That is how they light their fire."
 The "Metallic stones" spoken of are presumed, by some writers, to have
 been iron pyrites, as they may have been in some cases, but the national
 emblem was the flint.

 [FN-2] "_Sankhicani,_ the Mohawk's, from _Sankhican,_ a gun-lock."
 (Heckewelder.) The name appears first on the Carte Figurative of 1614-16,
 in application to the Indians of northern New Jersey (Delawares), who
 were, by some writers, called "The Fire-workers." They seem to have
 manufactured stone implements by the application of fire. Presumably
 they were "Fire-strikers" as well as the Mohawks. Certainly they were
 not Mohawks. Were the Mohawks the discoverers of the fire-striking
 properties of the flint?

 [FN-3] State Historian Hastings writes me: "The map of which you
 inquire, appeared originally in a pamphlet published at Middleburgh,
 Holland, at the Hague, 1666. It was first reproduced by the late Hon.
 Henry C. Murphy in his translation of the 'Vertoogh van Nieu Nederland,'
 etc. His reproduction gives _Canagere,_ as the name of the second
 castle, and _Caneray_ as the name of the first, precisely as they appear
 in order in our reproduction in our Third Report."

 [FN-4] _Oneongoure_ is a form of the name in Colonial History. In the
 standard translation of Jesuit Relations it is _Oneugiouré._ _Oneon_ is
 a clerical error. The letters _u_ and _ou_ represent a sound produced
 by the Indian in the throat without motion of the lips. Bruyas wrote it
 8{_sic_ ȣ?}; it is now read _w-Onew._ Adding an _a,_ we have very nearly
 M. Cuoq's _Ohnawah,_ "current," "swift river"; with suffix _gowa,_
 "great," the reference being to the great rapids near which the castle
 was located. The omission of the locative participle shows that it was
 not "at" or "on" the great rapids.

 [FN-5] "Their three castles destroyed and themselves dispersed." (Col.
 Hist. N. Y., iv, 20, 22.) The castles referred to Caughnawaga, Canagora,
 and Tiononteogen. A castle on the south side of the Mohawk, said to have
 been about two miles inland, escaped. Presumably it was the village of
 the Beaver family, but we have nothing further concerning it. The attack
 was made on the night of Feb. 16, 1693. The warriors of the first two
 castles were absent, and the few old men and the women made little
 resistance. At the third, the warriors fought bravely but unsuccessfully.
 The three castles were burned; that at Caughnawaga was given to the
 flames on the morning of February 20, 1693.

 [FN-6] Journal of Arent van Curler, of a visit to the Seneca country,
 1634-5 O. S., translated by General James Grant Wilson, printed in "The
 Independent," N. Y., Oct. 5, 1895. Republished by National Historical
 Society.

 [FN-7] General Wilson wrote me that the Journal was translated for him
 by a Hollander, now (1905) dead, and that the manuscript had passed out
 of his hands. The question of hours and miles is not important here. On
 his return travel he gave the distance from the little hunters' cabin
 (which in the meantime had been burned), as "A long walk," which will
 not be disputed. It may be added that it is not justifiable to count
 his two days' travel as one, and count the two as thirty-two English
 miles from Fort Orange. The two days' travel are very distinct in the
 Journal.

 [FN-8] Doc. Hist. N. Y., iii, 1087.

 [FN-9] Father Jogues noted in his narrative a "torrent" which passed
 "At the foot of their village"--a brook or creek which was swollen by
 rains into a torrent, and from which, on the later recedence of the
 water, he recovered the remains of the body of his companion, Rene
 Goupil, who had been murdered and his body thrown into it, probably with
 the expectation that it would be carried down into the Mohawk, "At the
 foot of their village," or at the foot of the hill on which the village
 stood.

 [FN-10] In the town of Minden, four miles south of Fort Plain, on a
 tongue of land formed by the Otsquaga Creek and one of its tributaries,
 are the remains of an ancient fortification, showing a curved line two
 hundred and forty feet in length, inclosing an area of about seven
 acres. The remains are, of course, claimed as belonging to the age of
 the mound-builders, but with equal probability are the remains of the
 ancient fort which Van Curler visited.



[Illustration: The Mohawk River]



                          * * * * *


Kahoos, Kahoes, Cohoes, Co'os, forms of the familiar name of the falls
of the Mohawk River at the junction of that stream with Hudson's River,
has had several interpretations based on the presumption that it is from
the Mohawk-Iroquoian dialect, but none that have been satisfactory to
students of that dialect, nor any that have not been purely conjectural.
One writer has read it: "From _Kaho,_ a boat or ship," commemorative of
Hudson's advent at Half-Moon Point in 1609. Beauchamp repeated from
Morgan: "A shipwrecked canoe," and, in another connection: "From _Kaho,_
a torrent." Another writer has read it: "Cahoes, 'the parting of the
waters,' the reference being to the separation of the stream into three
channels at its junction with the Hudson." The late Horatio Hale wrote
me: "Morgan gives, as the Iroquois form of the name, _Gä-hŏ-oose_ (in
which _ä_ represents the Italian _a_ as in father), with the signification
of 'ship-wrecked canoe.' This, I presume, is correct, though I cannot
analize the word to my satisfaction." The obvious reason for this
uncertainty is that the name is _not_ Mohawk-Iroquoian, but an early
Dutch orthography of the Algonquian generic _Koowa,_ "Pine"; _Koaaés,_
"Small pine," or "Small pine trees"; written with locative _it,_ "Place
of small pine trees"; now applied to a small island. On the Connecticut
River this generic is met in _Co'os_ and _Co'hos._ The "Upper Co-hos
Interval" on that stream (Sauthier's map) [FN-1] was a tract of low small
pine trees, between the hills and the river, corresponding with the
topography at the falls on the Hudson. The Dutch termination _-hoos,_
meaning in that language, "Water-spout," may have given rise to the
interpretation "The Great Falls," but if so the reading was simply
descriptive. The presumption that the name was Mohawk-Iroquoian was no
doubt from the general impression that the falls were primarily in a
Mohawk district, but the fact is precisely the reverse. The Hudson, on
both sides, was held by Algonquian-Mahicans when the Dutch located at
Albany, and for some years later, and the Dutch no doubt received the
name from them, as they did others. What few Mohawk names are met in this
district are of later introduction. It may be noted that there is no
element in the name in any dialect which refers to falls. [FN-2] When the
falls were first known they were regarded as the most wonderful in the
world, and even as late as 1680 they were so called by visitors. In early
days the stream poured a flood nine-hundred feet wide and eight feet deep
over a rocky declivity of seventy-eight feet, of which forty feet was
perpendicular, in addition to which are the rapids above and below. The
roar of the falling waters, and in the breaking up and precipitation of
ice, was very distinctly heard at Fort Orange, nine miles distant, and
the hills on which Albany now stands trembled under the impact. Primarily
the falls were much higher than they are now, the stream having cut its
way through one hundred feet of rock which rises on either side in
massive wall. Below the falls the water separates in four branches or
"Sprouts," the northerly and the southerly one reaching the Hudson five
miles apart, at Waterford and West Troy respectively.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] "L. Intervale-Cowass or Kohas (Coas) meadows." (Pownal's Map.)

 [FN-2] The name having been submitted to the Bureau of Ethnology for
 interpretation, the late Prof. J. W. Powell, Chief, wrote me, as the
 opinion of himself and his co-laborers: "The name is unquestionably
 from the Algonquian _Koowa._"


Wathoiack, of record as the name of "The Great Rift above Kahoes Falls"
(Cal. Land Papers, 134, etc.) is also written _Wathojax, D'Wathoiack,_
and _DeWathojaaks,_ means, substantially, what it describes, a rift or
rapid. The cis-locative _De_ locates a place "On this side of the rapid,"
or the side toward the speaker. The flow of water is between walls of
rock over a rocky bed, and the rapids extend for a distance of
thirty-five or forty feet. (Ses Kahoes.)

Niskayune, now so written as the name of a town and of a village in
Schenectady County, is from _Kanistagionne,_ primarily located on the
north side of the Mohawk, _Canastagiowane_ (1667) being the oldest form
of record. The locative description reads: "Lying at a place called
_Neastegaione,_ . . . known by the name of _Kanistegaione._" West of
Schenectady the Mohawk is a succession of rapids. At or below Schenectady
it makes a bend to the northeast in the form of a crescent, around which
the water flows in a sluggish current. At the north point of the crescent
was, and probably is a place called by the Dutch the Aal-plaat
(Eel-place), marked on maps by a small stream from the north which still
bears the name, and which formed the eastern boundmark of the Schenectady
Patent. In Barber's collection it is stated that there was an Indian
village here called _Canastagaones,_ or "People of the Eel-place."
Naturally there would be fishing villages in the vicinity. The location
of the Aal-plaat is particularly identified in the Mohawk deed for five
small islands lying at Kanastagiowne, in 1667, and by the abstract of
title filed by one Evart van Ness in 1715. (Cal. Land Papers.) The name
is from _Keantsica,_ "Fish," of the larger kind, and _-gionni,
"Long"--tsi,_ "Very long"--constructively, "The Long-fish place," the
Aal-plaat, or Eel-place, of the Dutch. The suggestion by Pearson (Hist.
Schenectady) that the name "was properly that of the flat on the north
side of the river," is untenable from the name itself. The reading by
the late Dr. E. B. O'Callaghan: "From _Oneasti,_ 'Maize,' and _Couane,_
'Great'--'Great maize field'"--is also erroneous. The generic name for
the field or flat was _Shenondohawah,_ compressed by the Dutch to
_Skonowa._ In the vicinity of the Aal-plaat was the ancient crossing-place
of the path from Fort Orange to the Mohawk castles, in early days
regarded as the "Best" as it was the "Most traveled." The path continued
north from the crossing as well as west to the castles.

Schenectady, now so written, is claimed by some authorities to be an
Anglicism of a Mohawk-Iroquoian verbal primarily applied by them to Fort
Orange (Albany), with the interpretations, "The place we arrive at by
passing through the pine trees" (Bleecker); "Beyond the opening" (L. H.
Morgan); "Beyond (or on the other side) of the door" (O'Callaghan), and
by Horatio Hale: "The name means simply, 'beyond the pines.' from
_oneghta_ (or _skaneghet_), 'pine,' and _adi_ or _ati,_ a prepositional
suffix (if such an expression may be allowed), meaning 'beyond,' or 'on
the other side of.' The suffix is derived from _skati,_ side. It was
equally applicable to Albany or Schenectady, both being reached from the
Mohawk castles by passing through openings in the pine forest." Mr.
Hale's interpretation, from the standpoint of a Mohawk term, is
exhaustive and no doubt correct, and the correctness of the preceding
interpretations may be admitted from the combinations which may have
been employed to determine the object of which _askati_ was "one side,"
as in "_Skannátati,_ de un coste du village," or the end of, as in
"_Skannhahati,_ a l'autre bout de la cabane" (Bruyas). The word does not
appear to mean "beyond," but one side or one end of anything. Aside from
a critical rendering, it would seem to be evident that all the
interpretations are in error, not in the translation of the name as a
Mohawk word-sentence, but in the assumption that Schenectady was primarily
a Mohawk phrase, instead of a confusion of the Mohawk _Skannatati_ with
the original Dutch _Schaenhecstede,_ the primary application of which is
amply sustained by official record, while the Mohawk term is without
standing in that connection, or later except as a corrupt Mohawk-Dutch
[FN-1] substitution. The facts of primary application may be briefly
stated. The deed from the Mohawk owners of the Schenectady flats, in
1661, reads: "A certain parcel of land called in Dutch the Groote
Vlachte, lying behind Fort Orange, between the same and the Mohawk
country called in Indian _Skonowe._" _Skonowe_ is the equivalent of the
Dutch "great flat," and nothing more. Its Mohawk equivalent is written
on the section _Shenondohawah,_ which the Dutch reduced to _Skonowe._
(See Shannondhoi.) Van der Donck wrote on his map (1656), in pure Dutch,
_Schoon Vlaack Land,_ or "Fine flat land." It was not continued in
application to the Dutch settlement, the proprietors of which immediately
(1661) gave to it the Dutch name _Schaenechstede,_ "as the town came to
be called." (Munsell's Annals of Albany, ii, 49, 52; Brodhead's Hist.
N. Y., i, 691.) Under that name the tract was surveyed (1664), and it
has remained apparent in the synthesis of the many corrupt forms in which
it is of record. _Schaenechstede_ is a clear orthographic pronunciation
of the Dutch _Schoonehetstede,_ signifying, literally, "The beautiful
town." The syllable _het_ is properly _hek,_ "fence, rail, gate," etc.,
and in this connection indicates an enclosed or palisaded town. In 1680,
_Schaenschentendeel_ appears--a pronunciation of _Schoonehettendal,_
"Beautiful valley," or the equivalent of the German _Schooneseckthal,_
"Beautiful corner or turn of a valley." The German Labadists, Jasper
Bankers and Peter Sluyter, made no mistake in their recognition of the
name when they wrote _Schoon-echten-deel_ in their Journal in 1679-80,
describing the town as a square set off by palisades. [FN-2] Unfortunately
for the Dutch name it was conferred and came into use during the period
of the transition of the province from the Dutch to the English, with the
probability of its conversion to Mohawk-Dutch, as already noted. Certain
it is that the name is not met in any form until after its introduction
by the Dutch, and is not of record in any connection except at
Schenectady, the statement by Brodhead, on the authority of Schoolcraft,
that it was applied in one form, by the Mohawks, to a place some two
miles above Albany, as "the end of a portage path of the Mohawks coming
from the west," being without anterior or subsequent record, though
possibly traditional, and it may be added that it was never the name of
Albany, nor is there record that there ever was a Mohawk village "on the
site of the present city of Albany," nor anywhere near it. The Mohawks
did go there to trade and on business with the government and occupied
temporary encampments probably. The occupants primarily were Mahicans.
The evolution of the name from the original Dutch to its present form
may be readily traced in the channels through which it has passed. Even
though clouded by traditional and theoretical rendering, the truth of
history will ever rest in _Schoonehetstede_ (Schaenechstede) and in the
interpretation which it was designed to express by the intelligent men
who conferred it. It is not expected that the correction will be adopted,
now that the term has passed to the domain of a "proper name." With the
aroma of assumed Mohawk origin and the negative "beyond" clinging to it,
it will remain at least as a harmless fiction, although the honor due to
a Dutch ancestry would seem to warrant a different result. By ancient
measurements Schenectady is "about nine miles (English) above the falls
called Cahoes" (1792).

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] A considerable number of the early settlers had Indian wives.
 (Dominie Megapolensis wrote: "The Dutch are continually running after
 the Mohawk women.") The children, growing up with Indian relatives,
 among the tribes and with men speaking so great a variety of tongues,
 built up a patois of their own, the "Mohawk-Dutch," many words in it
 defying the dictionaries of the schools. Many words are untranslatable
 save by the context. (Hist. Schenectady Patent, 388.)

 [FN-2] Memoirs Long Island Hist. Soc, i, 315.


Shannondhoi and Shenondohawah are record forms of the name of a section
of Saratoga County now embraced in Clifton Park, Half-Moon, etc. It is
a sandy plain running west from the clay bluffs on the Hudson to the foot
of the mountain, and extends across the Mohawk into Schenectady County.
The name is generic Iroquois, signifying "Great plain," and as such was
their name for Wyoming, Pa., where it is written _Schahandoanah_ (Col.
Hist. N. Y., vi, 48), and _Skehandowana_ (Reichel). Scanandanani,
Schenondehowe, Skenandoah, and Shanandoah, are among other forms met in
application. Skonowe is followed on Van der Donck's map of 1656, by the
Dutch legend _Schoon Vlaack Land,_ literally, "Fine, flat land," and for
all these years the name has been accepted as meaning, "Great meadow,"
or "Great plain." The late Horatio Hale wrote: "The name is readily
accounted for by the word _Kahenta_ (or _Kahenda_), meaning
'plain'--frequently abridged to _Kenta_ (or _Kenda_)--with the nominal
prefix _S_ and the augmentative suffix _owa_ (or _owana_)." "The great
flat or plain in Pennsylvania was called, in the Minsi dialect,
'_M'chewomink_, at (or on) the great plain.' From this word we have the
modern name Wyoming. The Iroquois word for this flat was _Skahentowane,_
'Great meadow (or plain),' a term which was applied also to extensive
meadows in other localities and became corrupted to Shenandoah."
(Gerard.)

Quaquarionu, of record, Calendar Land Papers, p. 6: "Bounds of a tract
of land above Schenectady purchased of the Mohawk Indians, extending from
Schenectady three miles westward, along both sides of the river, ending
at Quaquarionu, _where the last Mohawk castle stands._" The deed of same
date (1672) reads: "The lands lying near the town of Schenhectady within
three Dutch miles in compass on both sides of the river westward, which
ends at Kinaquariones, where the last battle was between the Mohawks and
the North Indians." (Col. Hist. N. Y., xiii, 465.) _Canaquarioeny_ is the
orthography in another deed. In Pearson's History of Schenectady: "Lands
lying near the town of Schonnhectade within three Dutch miles [about
twelve English miles] on both sides of the river westward, which ends at
Hinquariones [Towareoune], where the last battle was between the Mohoax
and North Indians." The last battle in that section of country explains
the text. Father Pierron, in 1669, located the battle "In a place that
was precipitous, . . . about eight leagues [French] east of Gandauague"
(Caughnawaga), or about sixteen miles English, and modern authorities
have added, "A steep rocky hill on the north side of the Mohawk, just
west of Hoffman's Ferry, now called Towareoune Hill, east of Chucktanunda
Creek, a stream which is supposed to have taken its name from the
overhanging rocks of the hill." [FN] Dr. Beauchamp, on the authority of
Albert Cusick, an educated Tuscarorian, translated: "_Kinaquarioune,_
'She arrow-maker,' the name of a person who resided there." Rev. Isaac
Bearfoot, an educated Onondagian, especially instructed in the Mohawk
dialect, and an educator on the Canada Reservation, supplied to W. Max
Reid of Amsterdam, N. Y., the reading: "_Ki-na-qua-ri-one_, 'He killed
the Bear,' or, the place where the Bears die, or any place of death. It
seems to have been used to denote the place of the last great battle with
the Mahicans." The battle referred to occurred on the 18th of August,
1669. An account of it is given in Jesuit Relations, iii, 137, by Father
Pierron, the Jesuit missionary, who was then stationed at Caughnawaga.
The war which was then raging was continued until 1673, when the Governor
of New York succeeded in negotiating peace and by treaty "linked
together" the opposing nations as allies of the English government, a
relation which they subsequently sustained until the war of the
Revolution, when the Mahicans united with the revolutionists.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] In a deed of 1685 is the entry: "Opposite a place called
 Jucktumunda, that is ye stone houses, being a hollow rock on ye river
 bank where ye Indians generally lie under when they travel."


Onekee-dsi-enos is of record in a deed of land purchased by one Abraham
Cuyler of Albany, in 1714, "from the native owners of the land at
Schohare, on the west side of Schohare creek, beginning on the north by
a stone mountain called by the Indians Onekeedsienos." (Cal. N. Y. Land
Papers, 110.) The name is probably an equivalent of Bruyas'
_Onueja-tsi-entos,_ a composition from _Onne'ja,_ "Stone"; _tsi_ or
_dsi,_ augmentative, "Very hard," such as stones used for making
hatchets, axes, etc., and _entos,_ plural inflection--"very hard stones,"
or "where there are hard stones." The location has been claimed for Flint
Hill at Klein, Montgomery County, which, it is said, the name correctly
describes. Positive identification, however, can only be made from the
lines of the survey of Cuyler's purchase. It has also been claimed that
the Mohawk castle called _Onekagoncka_ by Van Curler in 1635, and the
_Osseruenon_ of 1642, was located at Klein, about eight miles east of
Schohare Creek. This claim is based on what is certainly an erroneous
computation of Van Curler's miles' travel, but particularly on the
location on Van der Donck's map of _Carenay_ directly north of a small
lake now in the town of Duane, Schenectady County. Van der Donck's map
locations are merely approximative, however, and of no other value than
as showing that the places existed. On an ancient map reprinted by the
War Department at Washington, the lake and the castle are both located
east of Schenectady. The old maps are from traders' descriptions in
general terms.

Onuntadass, _Onuntasasha,_ etc., "six miles west from Schoharie between
the mountains of Schoharie and the hill called by the Indians Onuntadass"
(Cal. N. Y. Land Papers), describes a hill or mountain--_Ononté_--with
adjective termination _es_ or _ese,_ meaning "long" or "high."
_Jonondese,_ "It is a high hill." The hill has not been located. The name
could be applied to any long or high hill.

Schoharie, now so written as the name of a creek and of a county and
town, would properly be written without the _i_. The stream came into
notice particularly after 1693-4, when the Tortoise tribe retreated from
Caughnawaga and located their principal town on the west side of the
stream a short distance south of its junction with the Mohawk, taking
with them their ancient title of "The First Mohawk Castle," and where its
location became known by the name of _Ti-onondar-aga_ and
_Ti-ononta-ogen;_ but later from the location on the creek about sixteen
miles above its mouth of what was known in modern times as "The Third
Mohawk Castle," more frequently called "The Schohare Castle," a mixed
aggregation of Mohawks and Tuscaroras who had been converted by the
Jesuit missionaries and persuaded to remove to Canada, but subsequently
induced to return. "A few emigrants at Schohare," wrote Sir William
Johnson in 1763. In the same district was also gathered a settlement of
Mahicans and other Algonquian emigrants. From the elements which were
gathered in both settlements came what were, long known as the Schohare
Indians. The early record name of the creek, _To-was-sho'hare,_ was
rendered for me by Mr. J. B. N. Hewitt, of the Bureau of Ethnology,
_T-yo^c-skoⁿ-hà-re,_ "An obstruction by drift wood." [FN] In Colonial
History, "_Skohere_, the Bear," means that the chief so called was of the
Bear tribe. He was otherwise known by the title, "He is the great
wood-drift."

                          * * * * *

 [FN] "Schoharie, according to Brant, is an Indian word signifying drift
 or flood-wood, the creek of that name running at the foot of a steep
 precipice for many miles, from which it collected great quantities of
 wood." (Spofford's Gazetteer.)


Ti-onondar-aga and Tiononta-ogen are forms of the name by which the
"First Mohawk Castle" was located after the Tortoise tribe was driven by
the French from Caughnawaga in 1693. The castle was located on the _west_
side and near the mouth of Schohare Creek, as shown by a rough map in
Doc. Hist. N. Y., iii, 902, and also by a French Itinerary in 1757, in
the same work, Vol. i, 526. [FN-1] For the protection of the settlement,
the government erected, in 1710, what was known as Fort Hunter, by which
name the place is still known. The settlement was ruled over for a number
of years by "Little Abraham," brother of the Great King Hendrick of the
"Upper Mohawk Castle," at Canajohare. Its occupants were especially
classed as "Praying Maquas," and had a chapel and a bell and a priest of
the Church of England. In the war of the Revolution they professed to be
neutral but came to be regarded by the settlers as being composed of
spies and informers. So it came about that General Clinton sent out, in
1779, a detachment, captured all the inmates, and seized their stock and
property. [FN-2] There were only four houses--very good frame
buildings--then standing, and on the solicitation of settlers, who had
been made houseless in the Brant and Johnson raids, they were given to
them. It was the last Mohawk castle to disappear from the valley proper.

_Ti-onondar-ága_ and _Te-ononte-ógen_ are related terms but are not
precisely of the same meaning. The first has the locative particle _ke,_
or _acu_, as Zeisberger wrote it, and the second, _ógen,_ means "A space
between," or "between two mountains," an intervale, or valley, a very
proper name for Schohare Valley. It is a generic composition and was also
employed in connection with the "Upper (Third) Mohawk Castle" (1635-'66).

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] The settlement included "Some thirty cabins of Mohawk Indians"
 in 1757. as stated in the French Itinerary referred to, Rev. Gideon
 Hawley described it, in 1753, as on the southwest side of the creek "Not
 far from the place where it discharges its waters into Mohawk River."
 The place is still known as "Fort Hunter," although the fort and the
 Indian settlement disappeared years ago.

 [FN-2] A detachment of one hundred men, sent out for that purpose,
 surprised the castle on the 29th of October, 1779, making prisoners of
 "Every Indian inmate." The houseless settlers took possession of the four
 houses and of all the stock, grain and furniture of the tribe. The tribe
 made claim for restitution on the ground of neutrality, which the
 settlers denied. They had come to hate the very name of Mohawk.


Kadarode, of record in 1693 as the name of a tract of land "Lying upon
Trinderogues (Schohare) creek, on both sides, made over to John Petersen
Mabie by _Roode,_ the Indian, in his life time, [FN] principal sachem,
by and with the consent of the rest of the Praying Indian Castle in the
Mohawk country" (Land Papers, 61), is further referred to in grant of
permission to Mabie, in 1715, to purchase additional land "known as
Kadarode," on the _east_ side of the creek, and also lands "adjoining"
his lands on the _west_ side of the stream. (Ib. 118.) By the DeWitt map
of survey of 1790, Mabie's entire purchase extended east from the mouth
of Aurie's Creek to a point on the east side of Schohare Creek, a distance
of about four miles, the territory covering the presumed site of the
early Mohawk castle called by different writers from names which they had
heard spoken, Onekagoncka, Caneray, Osseruenon, and Oneugioure, now the
site of the Shrine, "Our Lady of Martyrs." The Mohawk River, west of the
long rapids, above and including the mouth of Schohare Creek, flows "in
a broad, dark stream, with no apparent current," giving it the appearance
of a lake--"a long stretch of still water in a river." The section was
much favored by the Tortoise tribe, whose castle in 1635 and again in
1693-4 was seated upon it. The record name, _Kadarode,_ has obviously
lost some letters. Its locative suggests its derivation from _Kanitare,_
"Lake," and _-okte_, "End, side, edge," etc. Van Curler wrote here, in
1635, _Canowarode,_ the name of a village which he passed while walking
on the ice which had frozen over the Mohawk; it was evidently on the side
of the stream. _Carenay_ or _Kaneray,_ Van der Donck's name of the
castle, may easily have been from _Kanitare._ The letters _d_ and _t_ are
equivalent sounds in the Mohawk tongue. The aspirate _k_ was frequently
dropped by European scribes; it does not represent a radical element. The
several record names which are met here is a point of interest to
students.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] _Roode_ was living in 1683. An additional name was given to him in
 a Schenectady patent of that year, indicating that the name by which he
 was generally known was from his place of residence. He could easily
 have been a sachem in 1635.


Oghrackee, Orachkee, Oghrackie, orthographies of the record name of what
is now known as Aurie's Creek, appear in connection with land patented
to John Scott, 1722. In the survey of the patent by Cadwallader Colden,
in the same year, the description reads: "On the south side of Mohawk's
river, about two miles above Fort Hunter, . . . beginning at a certain
brook called by the Indians Oghrackie, otherwise known as Arie's creek,
where it falls into Maquas river." (N. Y. Land Papers, 164.) In other
words the name was that of a place at the mouth of the brook. Near the
brook at Auriesville, which takes its name from that of the stream, has
been located the Shrine, "Our Lady of Martyrs," marking the presumed site
of the Mohawk castle called by Father Jogues _Osserueñon,_ in which he
suffered martyrdom in 1646. [FN] The Indian name, _Oghrackie,_ has no
meaning as it stands; some part of it was probably lost by mishearing.
The digraph _gh_ is not a radical element in Mohawk speech; it is
frequently dropped, as in _Orachkee,_ one of the forms of the name here.
Omitting it from Colden's _Oghrackie,_ and inserting the particle _se_ or
_sa,_ yields _Osarake,_ "At the beaver dam," from _Osara,_ "Beaver dam,"
and locative participle _ke,_ "At." (Hale.) This interpretation is
confirmed, substantially, by the Bureau of Ethnology in an interpretation
of _Osseruenon_ which Father Jogues gave as that of the castle. W. H.
Holmes, Chief of the Bureau, wrote me, under date of March 8, 1906, as
has been above stated, "The term _Osserueñon_ (or _Osserneñon, Asserua,
Osserion, Osserrinon_) appears to be from the Mohawk dialect of the
Iroquoian stock of languages. It signifies, if its English dress gives
any approximation to the sound of the original expression, 'At the beaver
dam.'" This expert testimony has its value in the force which it gives
to the conclusion that the castle in which Father Jogues suffered was at
or near Aurie's Creek. The relation between Megapolensis' _Assarue_ and
Jogues's _Osseru_ is readily seen by changing the initial _A_ in the
former to _O._

_Aurie's,_ the present name of the stream, otherwise written _Arie's,_ is
Dutch for _Adrian_ or _Adrianus_ (Latin) "Of or pertaining to the sea."
It is suggestive of the name _Adriochten,_ written by Van Curler as that
of the ruling sachem of the castle which he visited and called
_Onekagoncka_ in 1635. The only tangible fact, however, is that the
stream took its present name from Aurie, a ruling sachem who resided on
or near it.

In this connection the several names by which the castle was called, viz:
_Onekagoncka, Carenay_ or _Caneray, Osserueñon, Assarue,_ and
_Oneugiouré,_ may be again referred to. As already stated, the "best
expert authority" of the Bureau of Ethnology reads _Onekagoncka_ as
signifying, "At the junction of the waters," and _Osserueñon,_ in any of
its forms, as signifying "At the beaver-dam." Possibly the names might be
read differently by a less expert authority, but _Oneka_ certainly means
"Water," and _Ossera_ means "Beaver-dam." Add the reading by the late
Horatio Hale of _Oghracke,_ "At the beaver-dam," and the locative chain
is complete at the mouth of Aurie's Creek (Oghracke). _Tribally,_ the
names referred to one and the same castle, as has been noted, and the
evidence seems to be clear that the location was the same. There is no
evidence whatever that any other than one and the same place was occupied
by the "first castle" between the years 1635 and 1667. It is not strictly
correct to say that "castles were frequently removed." Villages that were
not palisaded may have been frequently changed to new sites, but the
evidence is that palisaded towns remained in one place for a number of
years unless the tribe occupying was driven out by an enemy or by
continued unhealthfulness, as the known history of all the old castles
shows; nor were they ever removed to any considerable distance from their
original sites.

Van Curler's description of the castle has been quoted. He did not say
that it was palisaded, but he did call it a "fort," which means the same
thing. Rev. Megapolensis wrote, in 1644: "These [the Tortoise tribe] have
built a fort of palisades and call their castle _Assarue._" It was not
an old castle when Van Curler visited it in 1635, or when Father Jogues
was a prisoner in it in 1642, but in its then short existence it had had
an incident in the wars between the Mohawks and the Mahicans of which
there is no mention in our written histories. On his return trip Van
Curler wrote that after leaving _Onekagoncka_ and walking about "two
miles," or about six English miles, his guide pointed to a high hill on
which the immediately preceding castle of the tribe had stood and from
which it had been driven by the Mahicans "nine years" previously, _i. e._
in 1627, when the war was raging between the Mohawks and the Mahicans of
which Wassenaer wrote. It was obviously about that time that the tribe,
retreating from its enemies, rallied west of Schohare Creek and founded
the castle of which we are speaking, and there it remained until it was
driven out by the French under De Tracey in 1666, when its occupants
gathered together at Caughnawaga on the north side of the Mohawk, where
they remained until 1693 when their castle was again destroyed by the
French, and the tribe found a resting place on the west side of the mouth
of Schohare Creek. The remarkable episode in the early history of the
castle, the torture and murder of Father Jogues in 1646, is available in
many publications. The location in Brodhead's and other histories of the
castle in which he suffered as at Caughnawaga, is now known to be
erroneous. Caughnawaga was not occupied by the tribal castle until over
twenty years later.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The site of the Shrine was approved by the Society of Jesus mainly
 on examinations and measurements made by General John S. Clark, the
 locally eminent antiquarian of Auburn, N. Y., who gave the most
 conscientious attention to the work of investigation. The data supplied
 by Van Curler's Journal, which he did not have before him, may suggest
 corrections in some of his locations.


Senatsycrossy, written by Van Curler, in 1635, as the name of a Mohawk
Village west of _Canowarode,_ seems to have been in the vicinity of
Fultonville, where tradition has always located one, but where General
John S. Clark asserts that there never was one. It may not have remained
at the place named for a number of years. Villages that were not palisaded
were sometimes removed in a single night. Van Curler described it as a
village of twelve houses. It was, presumably, the seat of a sub-tribe or
gens of the Tortoise tribe. Its precise location is not important. A gens
or sub-tribe was a family of the original stock more or less numerous
from natural increase and intermarriages, and always springing from a
single pair--the old, old story of Adam and Eve, the founders of the
Hebrews. The sachem or first man of these gens was never a ruler of the
tribe proper. They did sign deeds for possessions which were admitted to
be their own, but never a treaty on the part of the nation.

Caughnawaga, probably the best known of the Mohawk castles of what may
be called the middle era (1667-93), and the immediate successor of
_Onekagoncka_ of 1635, was located on the north side of the Mohawk, on
the edge of a hill, near the river, half a mile west of the mouth of
Cayuadutta Creek, in the present village of Fonda. The hill on which it
was built is now known as Kaneagah, writes Mr. W. Max Read of Amsterdam.
Its name appears first in French notation, in Jesuit Relations (1667),
_Gandaouagué._ [FN] Contemporaneous Dutch scribes wrote it _Kaghnawaga_
and _Caughnawaga,_ and Greenhalgh, an English trader, who visited the
castle in 1677, wrote it _Cahaniaga,_ and described it as "about a bowshot
from the river, doubly stockaded around, with four ports, and twenty-four
houses." The most salient points in its history are in connection with
its wars with the French and with the labors of the Jesuit missionaries,
who, after the murder of Father Jogues and the destruction of the castle
in which he suffered and the peace of 1667, were very successful, so much
so that in 1671 the occupants of the castle erected in its public square
a Cross, and a year later a very large number of the tribe under the lead
of the famous warrior Krin, removed to Canada and became allies of the
French. The members of the tribe who remained occupied the castle until
the winter of 1693, when it was captured and burned by the French, and
the tribe returned to the south side of the river and located on the
flats on the west side of Schohare Creek, where they were especially
known as "The Praying Maquaas," and where they remained until 1779, when
they were dispersed by the Revolutionary forces under General Clinton.
_Caughnawaga_ is accepted as meaning "At the rapids," more correctly "At
the rapid current." It is from the Huron radical _Gannawa_ (Bruyas),
for which M. Cuoq wrote in his Lexicon _Ohnawagh,_ "Swift current," or
very nearly the Dutch _Kaghnawa_; with locative particle _-ge_ or _-ga,_
"At the rapids." It is a generic term and is met of record in several
places. As has been noted elsewhere, the rapids of the Mohawk extend at
intervals fifteen in number from Schenectady to Little Falls, the longest
being east of the mouth of Schohare Creek. The rapid or rift at
Caughnawaga extends about half a mile.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The letters _ou,_ in _Gandaouaga_ and in other names, represents
 a sound produced by the Mohawks in the throat without motion of the
 lips. Bruyas wrote it 8. {_sic_ ȣ?} It is now generally written
 _w--Gandawaga._


Cayudutta, modern orthography; _Caniadutta_ and _Caniahdutta,_ 1752.
"Beginning at a great rock, lying on the west side of a creek, called by
the Indians Caniadutta." (Cal. Land Papers, 270.) The name was that of
the rock, from which it was extended to the stream. It was probably a
rock of the calciferous sandstone type containing garnets, quartz and
flint, which are met in the vicinity. "The name is from _Onenhia,_ or
_Onenya,_ 'stone,' and _Kaniote,_ 'to be elevated,' or standing" (Hale).
[FN] Dr. Beauchamp translated the name, "Stone standing out of the
water." The meaning, however, seems to be simply, "Standing stone," or
an elevated rock. Its location is stated in the patent description as
"lying on the west side of the creek." The place is claimed for Fulton
County. (See Caughnawaga.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN] The same word is now written as the name of the Oneida nation. Van
 Curler's trip, in 1635, extended to the castle of the Oneidas, which he
 called' _Enneyuttehage,_ "The standing-stone town." (Hale.)


Canagere, written by Van Curler, in 1635, as the name of the "Second
Castle" or tribal town, was written _Gandagiro_ by Father Jogues, in
1643; _Banigiro_ by Rev. Megapolensis; _Gandagora_ in Jesuit Relations
in 1669, and _Canagora_ by Greenhalgh in 1677. The several orthographies
 are claimed to stand for _Canajohare,_ from the fact that the castle was
"built on a high hill" east of Canajohare Creek. It was, however, the
castle of the Bear tribe, the _Ganniagwari,_ or Grand Bear of the nation,
and carried its name with it to the north side of the Mohawk in 1667.
_Ganniagwari_ and _Canajohare_ are easily confused. The creek called
_Canajohare_ gave a general locative name to a considerable district of
country around it. It took the name from a pot-hole in a mass of limestone
in its bed at the falls on the stream about one mile from its mouth.
Bruyas wrote "_Ganna-tsi-ohare,_ laver de chaudiere" (to wash the cauldron
or large kettle). Rev. Samuel Kirkland, the noted missionary to the
Oneidas, wrote the same word "_Kanaohare_, or Great Boiling Pot, as it is
called by the Six Nations." (Dr. Dwight.) The letter _j_ stands for
_tsi,_ augmentative, and the radical _ohare_ means "To wash." (Bruyas.)
The hole was obviously worn by a round stone or by pebbles, which, moved
by the action of the current, literally washed the kettle. Van Curler
described the castle as containing "sixteen houses, fifty, sixty, seventy,
or eighty paces long, and one of five paces containing a bear," which he
presumed was "to be fattened." No matter what may be said in regard to
precise location, this castle was _east_ of Canajohare Creek.

Sohanidisse, a castle so called by Van Curler, and denominated by him as
the "Third Castle," is marked on Van der Donck's map _Schanatisse._ It
is described by Van Curler as "on a very high hill," _west_ of Canajohare
Creek, was composed of thirty-two long houses, and was not enclosed by
palisades. "Near this castle was plenty of flat land and the woods were
full of oak trees." The "very high hill" west of Canajohare Creek and the
flat lands remain to verify its position. It is supposed to have been the
castle of the Beaver tribe--a sub-gens.

Osquage, Ohquage, Otsquage, etc., was written by Van Curler as the name
of a village of nine houses situated east of what has been known since
1635 as Osquage or Otsquage Creek. The chief of the village was called
"_Oguoho,_ that is Wolf." Megapolensis wrote the same term _Okwaho_; Van
Curler later wrote it _Ohquage,_ and in vocabulary "_Okwahohage,_ wolves,"
accessorily, "Place of wolves." From the form _Osquage_ we no doubt have
_Otsquage_ or _Okquage._

Cawaoge, a village so called by Van Curler, was described by him as on a
"very high hill" west of _Osquage._ On his return trip he wrote the name
_Nawoga;_ on old maps it is _Canawadoga,_ of which _Cawaoge_ is a
compression, apparently from _Gannawake._ For centuries the name has been
preserved in _Nowadaga_ as that of Fort Plain Creek.

Tenotoge and Tenotehage, Van Curler; _t' Jonoutego,_ Van der Donck;
_Te-onont-ogeu,_ Jogues; _Thenondigo,_ Megapolensis--called by Van Curler
the "Fourth Castle" and known later as the castle of the Wolf tribe, and
as the "Upper Mohawk Castle," was described by Van Curler as composed of
fifty-five houses "surrounded by three rows of palisades." It stood in a
valley evidently, as Van Curler wrote that the stream called the Osquaga
"ran past this castle." On the opposite (east) side of the stream he saw
"a good many houses filled with corn and beans," and extensive flat
lands. It was undoubtedly strongly palisaded to defend the western door
of the nation as was Onekagoncka on the east. _Te-onont-ogen,_ which is
probably the most correct form of the name, means "Between two mountains,"
an intervale or space between, from _Te,_ "two"; _-ononte,_ "mountain,"
and _-ogen,_ "between." The same name is met later at the mouth of
Schohare Creek. General John S. Clark located this castle at Spraker's
Basin, thirteen miles (railroad) _west_ of Auriesville and three miles
_east_ of Nowedaga Creek. The correctness of this location must be
determined by the topographical features stated by Van Curler and not
otherwise. General Clark did an excellent work in searching for the sites
of ancient castles from remaining evidences of Indian occupation, but the
remaining evidence of names and topographical features where they are met
of record must govern. In this case the creek that "ran past the door of
this castle," is an indisputable mark. The French destroyed the castle in
October, 1666. In the account of the occurrence (Doc. Hist. N. Y., ii,
70) it is described as being surrounded by "A triple palisade, twenty
feet in height and flanked by four bastions." The tribe did not defend
their possession, only a few old persons remaining who were too feeble to
follow the retreat of the warriors and kindred. The tribe rebuilt the
castle on the north side of the Mohawk under the name of _Onondagowa,_
"A Great Hill." The French destroyed it again in 1693, and the tribe
returned to the south side of the river and located on the flat at the
mouth of the Nowadaga or Fort Plain Creek, where the government built,
in 1710, Fort Hendrick for its protection, and where it became known as
the Upper or Canajohare Castle.

Aschalege, Oschalage, Otsgarege, etc., are record forms of the name given
as that of the stream now known as Cobel's Kill, a branch of Schohare
Creek in Schohare County. Morgan translated it from _Askwa_ or _Oskwa,_
a scaffolding or platform of any kind, and _ge,_ locative, the combination
yielding "At or on a bridge." Bruyas wrote _Otserage,_ "A causeway," a
way or road raised above the natural level of the ground, serving as a
passage over wet or marshy grounds. Otsgarage is now applied to a noted
cavern near the stream in the town of Cobel's Kill.

Oneyagine, "called by the Indians _Oneyagine,_ and by the Christians
Stone Kill," is the record name of a creek in Schohare County. J. B. N.
Hewitt read it from _Onehya_ (_Onne'ja,_ Bruyas), "stone"; _Oneyagine,_
"At the broken stone," from which transferred to the stream.

Kanendenra, "a hill called by the Indians Kanendenra, otherwise by the
Christians Anthony's Nose"--"to a point on Mohawk River near a hill called
by the Indians Kanandenra, and by the Christians Anthony's Nose"--"to a
certain hill called Anthony's Nose, whose point comes into the said
river"--"Kanendahhere, a hill on the south side of the Mohawk, by the
Christians lately called Anthony's Nose"--now known as "The Noses" and
applied to a range of hills that rises abruptly from the banks of the
Mohawk just below Spraker's. The name is an abstract noun, possessing a
specialized sense. The nose is the terminal peak of the Au Sable range.
The rock formation is gneiss, covered by heavy masses of calciferous
limestone containing garnets. "Anthony's Nose," probably so called from
resemblance to Anthony's Nose on the Hudson.

Etagragon, now so written, the name of a boundmark on the Mohawk, is of
record "_Estaragoha,_ a certain rock." The locative is on the south side
of the river about twenty-four miles above Schenectady. (Cal. N. Y. Land
Papers, 121.) The name is an equivalent of _Astenra-kowa,_ "A large
rock." Modern _Otsteara-kowa,_ Elliot.

Astenrogen, of record as the name of "the first carrying place," now
Little Falls, is from _Ostenra,_ "rock," and _ogen,_ "divisionem"
(Bruyas), literally, "Divided or separated rock." The east end of the
gorge was the eastern boundmark of what is known as the "German Flats,"
which was purchased and settled by a part of the Palatine immigrants who
had been located on the Livingston Patent in 1710. The patent to the
Germans here was granted in 1723. The description in it reads: "Beginning
at the first carrying place, being the easternmost bounds, called by the
natives _Astenrogen,_ running along on both sides of said river westerly
unto _Ganendagaren,_ or the upper end [_i. e._ of the flats, a fine
alluvial plain on both sides of the river], [FN] being about twenty-four
miles." (Cal. N. Y. Land Papers, 182.) The passage between the rocks, now
Little Falls, covered a distance of "about three-quarters of a mile" and
the rapids "the height of thirty-nine feet," according to the survey of
1792. The Mohawk here breaks through the Allegheny ridge which primarily
divided the waters of the Ontario Basin from the Hudson. The overflow
from the basin here formed a waterfall that probably rivaled Niagara and
gradually wore away the rock. The channel of the stream was very deep and
on the subsidence of the ice sheet, which spread over the northern part
of the continent, became filled with drift. The opening in the ridge and
the formation of the valley of the Mohawk as now known are studies in the
work of creation. The settlements known as the German Flats were on both
sides of the river. The one that was on the north side was burned by the
French in the war of 1756-7. It was then composed of sixty houses. The
one on the south side was known as Fort Kouari and later as Fort
Herkimer. The district shared largely in the historic events in the
Mohawk Valley during the Revolution. There are very few districts of
country in the nation in which so many subjects for consideration are
centered.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] _Ganendagraen_ is probably from _Gahenta_ (Gahenda), "Prairie."



                          * * * * *



                       On the Delaware.


Keht-hanne, Heckewelder--_Kittan,_ Zeisberger--"The principal or greatest
stream," _i. e._ of the country through which it passes, was the generic
name of the Delaware River, and _Lenapewihittuck,_ "The river or stream
of the Lenape," its specific name, more especially referring to the
stream where its waters are affected by tidal currents. In the Minisink
country it was known as _Minisinks River,_ or "River of the Minisinks."
At the Lehigh junction the main stream was called the East Branch and the
Lehigh the West Branch (Sauthier's map), but above that point the main
stream was known as the West Branch to its head in Utsyantha [FN-1] Lake,
on the north-east line of Delaware County, N. Y., where it was known as
the Mohawk's Branch. It forms the southwestern boundary of the State from
nearly its head to Port Jervis, Orange County, Where it enters or becomes
the western boundary of New Jersey. At Hancock, Delaware County, it
receives the waters of what was called by the Indians the _Paghkataghan,_
and by the English the East Branch. The West Branch was here known to the
Indians as the _Namaes-sipu_ and its equivalent _Lamas-sépos,_ or "Fish
River," by Europeans, Fish-Kill, "Because," says an affidavit of 1785,
"There was great numbers of _Maskunamack_ (that is Bass) and _Guwam_
(that is Shad) [FN-2] went up that branch at Shokan, and but few or none
went up the East [Paghkataghan] Branch." [FN-3] In the course of time the
East or Paghkataghan [FN-4] Branch became known as the Papagonck from a
place so called. The lower part of the stream was called by the Dutch the
"Zuiden River," or South River. In early days the main or West Branch was
navigable by flat-boats from Cochecton Falls to Philadelphia and
Wilmington. Smith, in his "History of New Jersey," wrote: "From Cochecton
to Trenton are fourteen considerable rifts, yet all passable in the long
flat boats used in the navigation of these parts, some carrying 500 or
600 bushels of wheat." _Meggeckesson_ (Col. Hist. N. Y., xii, 225) was
the name of what are now known as Trenton Falls, or rapids. It means,
briefly, "Strong water." Heckewelder's _Maskek-it-ong_ and his
interpretation of it, "Strong falls at," are wrong, the name which he
quoted being that of a swamp in the vicinity of the falls, as noted in
Col. Hist. N. Y., and as shown by the name itself.

The Delaware was the seat of the _Lenni-Lenapé_ (_a_ as _a_ in father,
_é_ as _a_ in mate--_Lenahpa_), or "Original people," or people born of
the earth on which they lived, who were recognized, at the time of the
discovery, as the head or "Grandfather" of the Algonquian nations. From
their principal seat on the tide-waters of the Delaware, and their
jurisdiction on that stream, they became known and are generally met in
history as the Delawares. In tribal and sub-tribal organizations they
extended over Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, New Jersey, and
New York as far north as the Katskills, speaking dialects radically the
same as that of the parent stock. [FN-5] They were composed of three
primary totemic tribes, the _Minsi_ or Wolf, the _Unulachtigo_ or Turkey,
and the _Unami_ or Turtle, of whom the Turtle held the primacy. They were
a milder and less barbaric people than the Iroquoian tribes, with whom
they had little affinity and with whom they were almost constantly in
conflict until they were broken up by the incoming tide of Europeans, the
earliest and the succeeding waves of which fell upon their shores, and
the later alliance of the English with their ancient enemies, the
confederated Six Nations of New York, who, from their geographical
position and greater strength from their remoteness from the
demoralization of early European contact, offered the most substantial
advantages for repelling the advances of the French in Canada. Ultimately
conquered by the Six Nations, and made "Women," in their figurative
language, _i. e._ a people without power to make war or enter into
treaties except with the consent of their rulers, they nevertheless
maintained their integrity and won the title of "Men" as the outcome of
the war of 1754-6. Their history has been fully--perhaps too
favorably--written by Heckewelder and others. The geographical names
which they gave to the hills and streams of their native land are their
most remindful memorial. While western New York was Iroquoian, southern
New York was Lenni-Lenape or Algonquian.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] Also written _Oteseontio_ and claimed as the name of a spring.
 The lake is a small body of water lying 1,800 feet above tide level, in
 the town of Jefferson, Schohare County. It is usually quoted as the head
 of the West Branch of Delaware River.

 [FN-2] "_Guwam;_ modifications, _Choam, Schawan._ The stem appears to be
 _Shawano,_ 'South,' 'Coming from the south,' or from salt water."
 (Brinton.)

 [FN-3] Affidavit of Johannes Decker, Hist. Or. Co. (quarto) p. 699:
 "Called by the Indians Lamas-Sepos, or Fish Kill, because they caught
 the shad there." (Cal. N. Y. Land Papers, 698, _et. seq._)

 [FN-4] _Paghkataghan_ means "The division or branch of a stream"--"Where
 the stream divides or separates." The Moravian missionaries wrote the
 name _Pachgahgoch,_ from which, by corruption, _Papagonck._ The
 Papagoncks seem to have been, primarily, Esopus Indians, and to have
 retreated to that point after yielding up their Esopus lands. (See
 Schaghticoke.)

 [FN-5] Two slightly different dialects prevailed among the Delawares,
 the one spoken by the Unami and the Unulachtigo, the other the Minsi.
 The dialect which the missionaries Learned, and in which they composed
 their works, was that of the Lehigh Valley. We may fairly consider it
 to have been the upper or inland Unami. It stood between the Unulachto
 and Southern Unami and the true Minsi. (Dr. Brinton.) The dialects
 spoken in the valley of Hudson's River have been referred to in another
 connection.


Minisink, now so written and preserved as the name of a town in Orange
County, appears primarily, in 1656, on Van der Donck's map, "Minnessinck
ofte t' Landt van Bacham," which may be read, constructively, "Indians
inhabiting the back or upper lands," or the highlands. [FN] Heckewelder
wrote: "The Minsi, which we have corrupted to Monsey, extended their
settlements from the Minisink, a place named after them, where they had
their council seat and fire," and Reichel added, "The Minisinks, _i. e._
the habitation of the Monseys or Minsis." The application was both
general and specific to the district of country occupied by the Minsi
tribe and to the place where its council fire was held. The former
embraced the mountainous country of the Delaware River above the Forks
or junction of the Lehigh Branch; the latter was on Minnisink Plains in
New Jersey, about eight miles south of Port Jervis, Orange County. It was
obviously known to the Dutch long before Van der Donck wrote the name.
It was visited, in 1694, by Arent Schuyler, a credited interpreter, who
wrote, in his Journal, Minissink and Menissink as the name of the tribal
seat. Although it is claimed that there was another council-seat on the
East Branch of the Delaware, that on Minisink Plains was no doubt the
principal seat of the tribe, as records show that it was there that all
official intercourse with the tribe was conducted for many years.
Schuyler met sachems and members of the tribe there and the place was
later made a point for missionary labor. Their village was palisaded.
On one of the early maps it is represented as a circular enclosure. In
August, 1663, they asked the Dutch authorities at New Amsterdam, through
_Oratamy,_ sachem of the Hackinsacks, "For a small piece of ordnance to
use in their fort against the _Sinuakas_ and protect their corn." (Col.
Hist. N. Y., xiii, 290.) In the blanket deed which the tribe gave in
1758, to their territory in New Jersey they were styled "Minsis, Monseys,
or Minnisinks." _Minsis_ and _Monseys_ are convertible terms of which the
late Dr. D. G. Brinton wrote: "From investigation among living Delawares,
_Minsi,_ properly _Minsiu,_ formerly _Min-assin-iu,_ means 'People of the
stony country,' or briefly, 'Mountaineers.' It is the synthesis of
_Minthiu,_ 'To be scattered,' and _Achsin,_ 'Stone.' according to the
best native authority." Apparently from _Min-assin_ we have Van der
Donck's _Minn-essin;_ with locative _-k, -ck, -g, -gh, Minn-essin-ks,_
"People of the stony country," back-landers or highlanders.
Interpretations of less merit have been made. One that is widely quoted
is from Old Algonquian and Chippeway _Minnis,_ "Island," and _-ink,_
locative; but there is no evidence that _Minnis_ was in the dialect spoken
here; on the contrary the record name of Great Minnisink Island, which
is supposed to have been referred to, was _Menag'nock,_ by the German
notation _Menach'hen-ak._ Aside from this _Minnissingh_ is of record at
Poughkeepsie, in 1683, where no island is known to have existed, and in
Westchester County the same term is met in _Men-assink_ (_Min-assin-ink_),
"At a place of small stones." The deed description at Poughkeepsie
located the tract conveyed "On the bank of the river," _i. e._ on the
back or ridge lands. (See Minnis-ingh.) The final _s_ which appears in
many of the forms of the name, and especially in _Minsis,_ is a foreign
plural.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] "Minnessinck ofte t' Landt Van Bacham," apparently received some
 of its letters from the engraver of the map. _Ofte_--Dutch and Old Saxon,
 _av_--English _of_--was probably used in the sense of identity or
 equivalency. Bacham--Dutch, _bak;_ Old High-German, _Bahhoham_--describes
 "An extended upper part, as of a mountain or ridge." In application to
 a tribe, "Ridge-landers," "Highlanders," or "Mountaineers." On the
 Hudson the tribe was generally known as Highlanders. The double _n_ and
 the double _s,_ in many of the forms, show that _e_ was pronounced
 short, or _i._


Menagnock, the record name of what has long been known as "The Great
Mennissincks Island"--"The Great Island of the Mennisinks"--is probably
an equivalent of _Menach'henak_ (Minsi) meaning "Islands." The island,
so called, is a flat cut up by water courses, forming several small
islands.

Namenock, an island so called by Rev. Casparus Freymout in 1737, is
probably an equivalent of Naman-ock and Namee-ock, L. I., which was
translated by Dr. Trumbull from Mass. _Namau-ohke,_ "Fishing place," or
"Fish country"--_Namauk,_ Del, "Fishing place." Perhaps it was the site
of a weir or dam for impounding fish. Such dams or fishing places became
boundmarks in some cases. The name was corrupted to _Nomin-ack,_ as the
name of a church and of a fort three or four miles below what is now
Montague, N. J. On Long Island the name is corrupted to _Nomin-ick._
(See Moriches.)

Magatsoot--A tract of land "Called and known by the name of Magockomack
and Magatsoot"--so entered in petition of Philip French for Minisink
Patent in 1703, is noted in petition of Ebenezer Wilson (same patent),
in 1702, "Beginning on the northwest side of the mouth of Weachackamack
Creek where it enters Minisink River." The creek was then given the name
of the field called Maghaghkamieck; it is now called Neversink.
_Magatsoot_ was the name of the mouth of the stream, "Where it enters
Minisink River," or the Delaware. It is an equivalent of _Machaak-sók,_
[FN] meaning, "The great outlet," or mouth of a river. Although specific
in application to the mouth of the river, it is more strictly the name
of the stream than that which it now bears. (See Magaat-Ramis.)

                          * * * * *

 [FN] _Machaak,_ Moh., _Mechek,_ Len.; "Great, large"; _soot, sók, sóhk,
 sauk,_ "Pouring out," hence mouth or outlet of a river.


Maghagh-kamieck, so written in patent to Arent Schuyler in 1694, and
described therein as "A certain tract of land at a place called
Maghaghkamieck," which "Place" was granted, in 1697, to Swartwout,
Coddebeck, and others, has been handed down in many orthographies. The
precise location of the "Place" was never ascertained by survey, but by
occupation it consisted of some portion of a very fine section of
bottom-land extending along the northeast side of Neversink River from
near or in the vicinity of the junction of that stream and the Delaware
at Carpenter's Point to the junction of Basha's Kill [FN-1] and the
Neversink, in the present county of Sullivan, a distance of about eleven
miles. In general terms its boundaries are described in the patent as
extending from "The western bounds of the lands called _Nepeneck_ to a
small run of water called by the Indian name _Assawaghkemek,_ and so along
the same and the lands of Mansjoor, the Indian." It matters not that in
later years it was reported by a commission that the patent "Contained
no particular boundaries, but appeared rather to be a description of a
certain tract of country in which 1,200 acres were to be taken up," the
name nevertheless was that of a certain field or place so distinct in
character as to become a general locative of the whole, as in the Schuyler
grant of 1694. It may reasonably be presumed that the district to which
it was extended began at Carpenter's Point (Nepeneck) and ended on the
north side of Basha's Kill. (See Assawaghkemek.) The same name is met in
New Jersey on the Peaquaneck River, where it is of record in 1649,
"_Mechgacham-ik,_ or Indian field" (Col. Hist. N. Y., xiii, 25); noted
as an Indian settlement in the Journal of Arent Schuyler, in 1694, giving
an account of his visit to the Minissinck country, in February of that
year, in which the orthography is _Maghagh-kamieck,_ indicating very
clearly that the original was _Maghk-aghk-kamighk,_ a combination of
_Maghaghk,_ "Pumpkin," and _-kamik,_ "Field," or place limited, where
those vegetables were cultivated, and a place that was widely known
evidently. [FN-2] The German missionaries wrote _Machg-ack,_ "Pumpkin,"
and Captain John Smith, in his Virginia notes of 1620, wrote the same
sound in _Mahcawq._ No mention is made of an Indian village here. If
there was one it certainly was not visited by Arent Schuyler in 1694,
as is shown by the general direction of his route, as well as by maps of
Indian paths. To have visited Maghaghkamik in Orange County would have
taken him many miles out of his way. Maghaghkamik Fork and Maghaghkamik
Church lost those names many years ago, but the ancient name is still
in use in some connections in Port Jervis, and most wretchedly spelled.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] Basha's Kill, so called from a place called Basha's land, which
 see.

 [FN-2] _Kamik,_ Del., _Komuk,_ Mass., in varying orthographies, means
 "Place" in the sense of a limited enclosed, or occupied space;
 "Generally," wrote Dr. Trumbull, "An enclosure, natural or artificial,
 such as a house or other building, a village, or planted field, a thicket
 or place surrounded by trees"; briefly, a place having definite
 boundaries. _Maghkaghk_ is an intense expression of quality--perfection.


Nepeneck, a boundmark so called in the Swartwout-Coddebeck Patent of
1697--Napenock, Napenack, Napenough, later forms--given as the name of
the western or southwestern bound of the Maghaghkamick tract, is
described: "Beginning at the western bounds of the lands called Nepeneck."
The place is presumed to have been at or near Carpenter's Point, on the
Delaware, which at times is overflowed by water. It disappears here after
1697, but reappears in a similar situation some twenty miles north at the
junction of the Sandberg and Rondout kills. It is probably a generic as
in _Nepeak,_ L. I., meaning, "Water land," or land overflowed by water.
"_Nepenit_ 'In a place of water.'" (Trumbull.) Carpenter's Point or
ancient Nepeneck, is the site of the famous Tri-States Rock, the boundmark
of three states.



[Illustration: On The Delaware, Tri-States Rock Port Jervis, N.Y.]



Assawaghkemek, the name entered as that of the northeast boundmark of
the Swartwout-Coddebeck Patent, and described therein, "To a small run of
water called Assawaghkemek . . . and so along the same and the lands of
Mansjoor, the Indian," is known by settlement, to have been _at_ and
_below_ the junction of Basha's Kill and the Neversink, from which the
inference seems to be well sustained that "the lands of Mansjoor, the
Indian" were the lands or valley of Basha's Kill, which the name describes
as an enclosed or occupied place "beyond," or "on the other side" of the
small run of water. The prefix _Assaw,_ otherwise written _Accaw, Agaw,_
etc., means "Beyond," "On the other side." The termination _agh,_ or
_aug,_ indicates that the name is formed as a verb. _Kemek_ (Kamik) means
an enclosed, or occupied place, as already stated. The translation in
"History of Orange County," from _Waseleu,_ "Light, bright, foaming," is
erroneous, as is also the application of the name to Fall Brook, near the
modern village of Huguenot. In no case was the name that of a stream,
except by extension to it.

Peenpack, (Paan, Paen, Pien, Penn) is given, _traditionally,_ as the name
of a "Small knoll or rise of ground, some fifty or sixty rods long, ten
wide, and about twenty feet high above the level of" Neversink River,
"on and around which the settlers of the Maghaghkamik Patent first
located their cabins." It has been preserved for many generations as the
name of what is known as the Peen-pach Valley, the long narrow flats on
the Neversink. Apparently it is corrupt Dutch from _Paan-pacht,_ "Low,
soft land," or leased land. The same name is met in _Paan-paach,_ Troy,
N. Y., and in _Penpack,_ Somerset County, N. J. The places bearing it
were primary Dutch settlements on low lands. (See Paanpaach.) Doubtfully
a substitution for Algonquian from a root meaning, "To fall from a height"
(Abn., _Paⁿna;_ Len. _Pange_), as in Abn. _Panaⁿk'i,_ "Fall of land,"
the downward slope of a mountain, suggested by the slope of the Shawongunk
Mountain range, which here runs southwest to northeast and falls off on
the west until it meets the narrow flats spoken of. The same feature is
met at Troy.

Tehannek, traditionally the name of a small stream on the east side of
the Peenpack Knoll, probably means "Cold stream," from _Ta_ or _Te,_
"cold," and _-hannek,_ "stream." It is a mountain brook.

Sokapach, traditionally the name of a spring in Deerpark, means, "A
spring." It is an equivalent of _Sókapeék,_ "A spring or pool."

Neversink, the name quoted as that of the stream flowing to the Delaware
at Carpenter's Point, is not a river name. It is a corruption of Lenape
_Newás,_ "A promontory," and _-ink,_ locative, meaning "At the
promontory." The particular promontory referred to seems to have been
what is now known as Neversink Point, in Sullivan County, which rises
3,300 feet. The name is generic and is met in several places, notably in
Neversink, N. J. (See Maghaghkameck.)

Seneyaughquan, given as the name of an Indian bridge which crossed the
Neversink, may have its equivalent in "_Tayachquano,_ bridge--a dry
passage over a stream." (Heckewelder.) The bridge was a log and the
location said to have been above the junction of the stream with the
Mamacottin.

Saukhekemeck, otherwise _Maghawam,_ so entered in the Schuyler Patent,
1697, apparently refer to one and the same place. The locative has not
been ascertained. The patent covered lands now in New Jersey. The tract
is described in the patent: "Situated upon a river called Mennissincks,
before a certain island called Menagnock, which is adjacent to or near a
tract of land called by the natives Maghaghkamek." (See Menagnock.)

Warensagskemeck, a tract also conveyed to Arent Schuyler in 1697,
described as "A parcel of meadow or vly, adjacent to or near a tract
called Maghaghkamek," is probably, by exchange of _r_ and _l_ and
transpositions, _Walenaskameck; Walen,_ "hollowing, concave"; _Walak,_
hole; _Waleck,_ a hollow or excavation; _-ask,_ "Grass"; _-kameck,_ an
enclosed or limited field; substantially, "a meadow or vly," [FN] as
described in the deed.

                          * * * * *

 [FN] _Vly_ is a Dutch contraction of _Vallei,_ with the accepted
 signification, "A swamp or morass; a depression with water in it in
 rainy seasons, but dry at other times." A low meadow. _Walini,_
 (Eastern), hollowing, concave site.


Schakaeckemick, given as the name of a parcel of land on the Delaware
described as "lying in an elbow," seems to be an equivalent of
_Schaghach,_ meaning "Straight." level, flat, and _-kamick,_ a limited
field. The tract was given to one William Tietsort, a blacksmith, who had
escaped from the massacre at Schenectady (Feb. 1689-90), and was induced
by the gift to settle among the Minisinks to repair their fire-arms. He
was the first European settler on the Delaware within the limits of the
old county of Orange. He sold the land to one John Decker, and removed
to Duchess County. No abstract of title from Decker has been made, and
probably cannot be. Decker's name, however, appears in records as one of
the first settlers, in company with William Cole and Solomon Davis, in
what was long known as "The Lower Neighborhood"; in New Jersey annals,
"Cole's Fort." The precise location is uncertain. In History of Orange
Co. (Ed. 1881, p. 701), it is said: "It is believed that further
investigation will show that Tietsort's land was the later Benj. van
Vleet place, near Port Jervis." In Eager's "History of Orange County"
(p. 396), Stephen St. John is given as the later owner of the original
farm of John Decker. Decker's house was certainly in the "Lower
Neighborhood." It was palisaded and called a fort.

Wihlahoosa, given, locally, as the name of a cavern in the rocks on the
side of the mountain, about three miles from Port Jervis, on the east
side of Neversink River, is probably from _Wihl_ (Zeisb.), "Head," and
_-hōōs,_ "Pot or kettle." The reference may have been to its shape, or
its position. In the vicinity of the cavern was an Indian burial ground
covering six acres. Skeletons have been unearthed there and found
invariably in a sitting posture. In one grave was found a sheet-iron
tobacco-box containing a handkerchief covered with hieroglyphics probably
reciting the owner's achievements. Tomahawks, arrow-heads and other
implements have also been found in graves. The place was long known as
"Penhausen's Land," from one of the grantors of the deed. The cavern may
have had some connection with the burial ground.

Walpack, N. J., is probably a corruption of _Walpeék,_ from _Walak_
(_Woalac,_ Zeisb.), "A hollow or excavation," and _-peék,_ "Lake," or
body of still water. The idea expressed is probably "Deep water." It was
the name of a lake.

Mamakating, now so written and preserved in the name of a town in Sullivan
County, is written on Sauthier's map _Mamecatink_ as the name of a
settlement and _Mamacotton_ as the name of a stream. Other forms are
_Mamacoting_ and _Mamacocking._ The stream bearing the name is now called
Basha's Kill, the waters of which find their way to the Delaware, and
Mamakating is assigned to a hollow. The settlement was primarily a trading
post which gathered in the neighborhood of the Groot Yaugh Huys (Dutch,
"Great Hunting House"), a large cabin constructed by the Indians for their
accommodation when on hunting expeditions, [FN-1] and subsequently
maintained by Europeans for the accommodation of hunters and travelers
passing over what was known as the "Mamacottin path," a trunk line road
connecting the Hudson and Delaware rivers, more modernly known as the
"Old Mine Road," which was opened as a highway in 1756. The Hunting House
is located on Sauthier's map immediately south of the Sandberg, in the
town of Mamakating, and more recently, by local authority, at or near
what is known as the "Manarse Smith Spring," otherwise as the "Great
Yaugh Huys Fontaine," or Great Hunting House Spring. [FN-2] The meaning
of the name is largely involved in the orthography of the suffix. If the
word was _-oten_ it would refer to the trading post or town, as in
"_Otenink,_ in the town" (Heckewelder), and, with the prefix _Mamak_
(_Mamach,_ German notation), root _Mach,_ "evil, bad, naughty" (_Mamak,_
iterative), would describe something that was very bad in the town; but,
if the word was _-atin,_ "Hill or mountain," the name would refer to a
place that was at or on a very bad hill. Presumably the hill was the
objective feature, the settlement being at or near the Sandberg. There
is nothing in the name meaning plain or valley, nor anything "wonderful"
about it. Among other features on the ancient path was the wigwam of
_Tautapau,_ "a medicine man," so entered in a patent to Jacob Rutzen in
1713. _Tautapau_ (Taupowaw, Powaw), "A priest or medicine man," literally,
"A wise speaker."

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] Indian Hunting-houses were met in all parts of the country. They
 were generally temporary huts, but in some cases became permanent. (See
 Cochecton.)

 [FN-2] _Fontaine_ is French--"A spring of water issuing from the earth."
 The stream flowing from the spring is met in local history as Fantine
 Kill.


Kau-na-ong-ga, "Two wings," is said to have been the name of White Lake,
Sullivan County, the form of the lake being that of a pair of wings
expanded, according to the late Alfred B. Street, the poet-historian,
who embalmed the lake in verse years before it became noted as a
fashionable resort. (See Kong-hong-amok.)

    "Where the twin branches of the Delaware
    Glide into one, and in their language call'd
    _Chihocken,_ or 'the meeting of the floods';" [FN-1]

The "Willemoc," [FN-2] and "The Falls of the Mongaup," are also among
Street's poetical productions.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] "Formerly Shohakin or Chehocton." (French's Gaz.) In N. Y. Land
 Papers, Schohakana is the orthography. Street's translation is a poetical
 fancy. The name probably refers to a place at the mouth of the northwest
 or Mohawk Branch of the Delaware, and the northeast or Paghkataghan
 Branch, at Hancock, Del. Co.

 [FN-2] _Willemoc_ probably stands for _Wilamauk,_ "Good fishing-place."
 There were two streams in the town, one known as the Beaver Kill and the
 other as the _Williwemack._ In Cal. N. Y. Land Papers, 699, occurs the
 entry: "The Beaver Kill or Whitenaughwemack." The date is 1785. The
 orthography bears evidence of many years' corruption. It may have been
 shortened to Willewemock and Willemoc, and stand for _Wilamochk,_ "Good,
 rich, beaver." It was, presumably, a superior resort for beavers.


Shawanoesberg was conferred on a hill in the present town of Mamakating,
commemorative of a village of the Shawanoes who settled here in 1694 on
invitation of the Minisinks. (Council Minutes, Sept. 14, 1692.) Their
council-house is said to have been on the summit of the hill.

Basha's Land and Basha's Kill, familiar local terms in Sullivan County,
are claimed to have been so called from a squaw-sachem known as Elizabeth
who lived near Westbrookville. "Basha's Land" was one of the boundmarks
of the Minisink Patent and Basha's Kill the northeast bound of the
Maghaghkemik Patent. Derivation of the name from Elizabeth is not
well-sustained. [FN-1] The original was probably an equivalent of
_Bashaba,_ an Eastern-Algonquian term for "Sagamore of Sagamores," or
ruling sachem or king of a nation. It is met of record Bashaba, Betsebe,
Bessabe, Bashebe, etc. Hubbard wrote: "They called the chief rulers,
who commanded the rest, Bashabeas. Bashaba is a title." "Chiefs bearing
this title, and exercising the prerogatives of their rank, are frequently
spoken of by the early voyagers." [FN-2] (Hist. Mag., Second Series, 3,
49.) The lands spoken of were the recognized territorial possession of
the chief ruler of the nation or tribe. The "squaw-sachem" [FN-3] may
have held the title by succession or as the wife of the Bashaba.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] Basha's Kill was applied to Mamcotten Kill north of the village
 of Wurtsboro, south of which it retained the name of Mamacotten, as
 written on Sauthier's map. Quinlan, in his "History of Sullivan County,"
 wrote: "The head-waters of Mamakating River subsequently became known
 as Elizabeth's Kill, in compliment to Elizabeth Gonsaulus. We could
 imagine that she was the original Basha, Betje, or Betsey, who owned the
 land south of the Yaugh House Spring, and gave to the Mamakating stream
 its present name; but unfortunately she was not born soon enough.
 Twenty-five years before her family came to Mamakating, 'Basha's land'
 was mentioned in official documents." It appears in the Minisink Patent
 in 1704.

 [FN-2] A. S. Gatschet, of the Bureau of Ethnology, wrote me: "The Bashas,
 Bashebas and Betsebas of old explorers of the coast of Maine, I explain
 by _pe'sks,_ 'one,' and _a'pi,_ 'man,' or person--'First man in the
 land.'"

 [FN-3] _Squaw,_ "Woman," means, literally, "Female animal." _Saunk-squa_
 stands for "Sochem's squaw." "The squa-sachem, for so they call the
 Sachem's wife." (Winslow.)


Mongaup, given as the name of a stream which constitutes in part the
western boundary of Orange County, is entered on Sauthier's map,
"Mangawping or Mangaup." Quinlan (Hist. Sullivan County) claimed for it
also Mingapochka and Mingwing, indicating that the stream carried the
names of two distinct places. _Mongaup_ is a compression of Dutch
_Mondgauwpink,_ meaning, substantially, "At the mouth of a small, rapid
river," for which a local writer has substituted "Dancing feather," which
is not in the composition in any language. _Mingapochka_ (Alg.), appears
to be from _Mih'n_ (_Mih'nall_ plural; Zeisb.), "Huckleberry," and
_-pohoka,_ "Cleft, clove or valley"--literally, "Huckleberry Valley."
Street, writing half a century ago, described the northern approach of
the stream as a valley wreathed (poetically) in whortle berries--

    "In large tempting clusters of light misty blue."

The stream rises in the center of Sullivan County and flows to the
Delaware. The falls are said to be from sixty to eighty feet in four
cascades. (Hist. Sul. Co.) Another writer says: "Three miles above
Forestburgh village, the stream falls into a chasm seventy feet deep,
and the banks above the falls are over one hundred feet high."

Meenahga, a modern place-name, is a somewhat remarkable orthography of
_Mih'n-acki_ (aghki), "Huckleberry land" or place.

Callicoon, the name of a town in Sullivan County, and of a stream, is
an Anglicism of _Kalkan_ (Dutch), "Turkey"--_Wilde Kalkan,_ "Wild
turkey"--in application, "Place of turkeys." The district bearing the
name is locally described as extending from Callicoon Creek to the mouth
of Ten Mile River, on the Delaware. Wild turkeys were abundant in the
vicinage of the stream no doubt, from which perhaps the name, but as
there is record evidence that a clan of the Turkey tribe of Delawares
located in the vicinity, it is quite probable that the name is from them.
The stream is a dashing mountain brook, embalmed poetically by the pen
of Street. (See Cochecton.)

Keshethton, written by Colonel Hathorn in 1779, as the name of an Indian
path, is no doubt an orthography of Casheghton. In early years a
trunk-line path ran up the Delaware to Cochecton Falls, where, with other
paths, it connected with the main path leading to Wyoming Valley, [FN]
the importance of the latter path suggesting, in 1756, the erection of
a fort and the establishment of a base of supplies at Cochecton from
which to attack the Indians under Tedyuscung and Shingask in what was
then known as "The Great Swamp," from which those noted warriors and
their followers made their forays. (Doc. Hist. N. Y., ii. 715; Ib. Map,
i, 586.) Colonel Hathorn passed over part of this path in 1779, in pursuit
of Brant, and was disastrously defeated in what is called "The Battle of
Minnisink."

                          * * * * *

 [FN] "The first well-beaten path that connected the Delaware and
 Susquehanna Rivers, and subsequently the first rude wagon road leading
 from Cochecton through Little Meadows, in Salem township, and across
 Moosic Mountains." (Hist. Penn.) It was with a view to connect the
 commerce from this section with the Hudson that the Newburgh and
 Cochecton Turnpike was constructed in the early years of 1800.


Cochecton, the name of a town and of a village in Sullivan County,
extended on early maps to an island, to a range of hills, and to a fall
or rift in the Delaware River, is written Cashieghtunk and in other forms
on Sauthier's map of 1774; Cushieton on a map of 1768; _Keshecton,_ Col.
Cortlandt, 1778; _Cashecton,_ N. Y. Land Papers, 699; Cushietunk in the
proceedings of the Treaty of Easton, 1758, and in other New Jersey
records: Cashighton in 1744; Kishigton in N. Y. records in 1737, and
Cashiektunk by Cadwallader Colden in 1737, as the name of a place near
the boundmark claimed by the Province of New Jersey, latitude 41 degrees
40 minutes. "On the most northerly branch of Delaware River, which point
falls near Cashiektunk, an Indian village, on a branch of that river
called the Fish Kill." (Doc. Hist. N. Y., iv, 177.) In the Treaty of
Easton, 1758, the Indian title to land conveyed to New Jersey is
described: "Beginning at the Station Point between the Province of New
Jersey and New York, at the most northerly end of an Indian settlement
on the Delaware, known by the name of Casheitong." Station Point, called
also Station Rock, is about three miles southeast of the present village
of Cochecton, on a flat at a bend in the river, by old survey twenty-two
miles in a straight line from the mouth of Maghaghkamik Creek, now
Carpenter's Point, in the town of Deerpark, Orange County. Cochecton
Falls, so called, are a rocky rapid in a narrow gorge covering a fall
of two or three hundred feet, the obstruction throwing the water and the
deposits brought down back upon the low lands. The Callicoon flows to the
Delaware a few miles northeast of the falls. Between the latter and the
mouth of the Callicoon lies the Cochecton Flats or valley. The precise
location of "Station Point or Rock," described as "At the most northerly
end" of the Indian village, has not been ascertained, but can be readily
found. The late Hon. John C. Curtis, of Cochecton, wrote: "Our beautiful
valley, from Cochecton Falls to the mouth of the Callicoon, was called,
by the Indians, _Cushetunk,_ or low lands," the locative of the name
having been handed down from generation to generation, and an
interpretation of the name which is inferentially correct. There is no
such word as _Cash_ or _Cush_ in the Delaware dialect, however; it stands
here obviously as a form of _K'sch,_ intensive _K'schiecton_ (Len. Eng.
Dic.); _Geschiechton,_ Zeisberger, verbal noun, "To wash," "The act of
washing," as by the "overflow of the water of a sea or river. . . . The
river washed a valley in the plain"; with suffix _-unk_
(_K'schiechton-unk_--compressed to _Cushetunk_), denoting a place where
the action of the verb was performed, _i. e._ a place where at times the
land is washed or overflowed by water, from which the traditionary
interpretation, "Low land." [FN-1]

The Indian town spoken of was established in 1744, although its site was
previously occupied by Indian hunting houses or huts for residences while
on hunting expeditions. In Col. Mss. v. 75, p. 10, is preserved a paper
in which it is stated that the Indians residing at Goshen, Orange County,
having "Removed to their hunting houses at Cashigton," were there
visited, in December, 1744, by a delegation of residents of Goshen,
consisting of Col. Thomas DeKay, William Coleman, Benj. Thompson, Major
Swartwout, Adam Wisner, interpreter, and two Indians as pilots, for the
purpose of ascertaining the cause of the removal; that the delegation
found the residents composed of two totemic families, Wolves and Turkeys;
that, having lost their sachem, they were debating "Out of which tribe
a successor should be chosen"; that they had removed from Goshen through
fear of the hostile intention on the part of the settlers there, who
"Were always carrying guns." Later, a delegation from the Indian town
visited Goshen, and was there "Linked together" with Colonel De Kay, as
the representative of the Governor of the province, in their peculiar
form of locking arms, for three hours, as a test of enduring friendship.
[FN-2] It was the only treaty with the Indians in Orange County of which
there is record.

Aside from its Indian occupants the town is historic as the point forming
the old northwest boundmark of New Jersey (Lat. 41 degrees 40 minutes),
as recognized in the Treaty of Easton. (See Pompton.) From its association
with the history of three provinces, the story of the town is of more
than local interest. The lands were ultimately included in the Hardenberg
Patent, and most of the Indian descendants of its founders of 1744
followed the lead of Brant in the Revolution. They probably deserved a
better fate than that which came to them. They are gone. The long night
with its starless robe has enveloped them in its folds--the ceaseless
wash of the waters of the Delaware upon the beautiful valley of Cochecton,
hymns their requiem.

                          * * * * *

 [FN-1] Probably the same name is met in _Sheshecua-ung,_ the broad flats
 opposite and above the old Indian meadows, Wyoming Valley, where the
 topography is substantially the same.

 [FN-2] A belt was presented by the Indians to Col. De Kay, but what
 became of it neither the records or tradition relates.



                          * * * * *



Here we close our survey of the only monuments which remain of races
which for ages hunted the deer, chanted songs of love, and raised fierce
war cries--the names which they gave and which remain of record of the
hills and valleys, the lakes and waterfalls, amid which they had their
abiding places. Wonderfully suggestive and full of inferential deductions
are those monuments; volumes of history and romance are linked with them;
the most controlling influences in making our nation what it is is graven
in their crude orthographies. Their further reclamation and restoration
to the geographical locations to which they belonged is a duty devolving
on coming generations.



                          * * * * *



                  THE DUTCH RACKS OF 1625-6.


          [_From De Laet's "New World," Leyden Edition._]


 "Within the first reach, where the land is low, there dwells a nation of
 savages named Tappaans. . . . The second reach extends upward to a
 narrow pass named by our people Haverstroo; then comes Seyl-maker's
 (Zeil-maker's, sail-maker's) reach, as they call it; and next, a crooked
 reach, in the form of a crescent, called Koch's reach (Cook's reach).
 Next is Hooge-rack (High reach); and then follows Vossen reach (Foxes
 reach), which extends to Klinckersberg (Stone mountain). This is
 succeeded by Fisher's (Vischer's) reach, where, on the east bank of the
 river, dwells a nation of savages called Pachamy. This reach extends to
 another narrow pass, where, on the west side of the river, there is a
 point of land that juts out covered with sand, opposite a bend in the
 river, on which another nation of savages, called the Waoranecks, have
 their abode, at a place called Esopus. A little beyond, on the west
 side, where there is a creek, and the river becomes more shallow, the
 Waronawankongs reside; _here are several small islands._ Next comes
 another reach called Klaver-rack, where the water is deeper on the west
 side, while the eastern side is sandy. Then follow Backer-rack, John
 Playser's rack and Vaster rack as far as Hinnenhock. Finally, the
 Herten-rack (Deer-rack) succeeds as far as Kinderhoek. Beyond Kinderhoek
 there are several small islands, one of which is called Beeren Island
 (Bear's Island). After this we come to a sheltered retreat named Onwee
 Ree (_Onwereen,_ to thunder, _Ree,_ quick, sudden thunder storms), and
 farther on are Sturgeon's Hoek, over against which, on the east side of
 the river, dwell the Mohicans."




                        TO THE READER.

                          * * * * *

A work of the character of that which is herewith presented to you would
be eminently remarkable if it was found to be entirely free from
typographical and clerical errors. No apology is made for such as you
may find, the rule being regarded as a good one that the discoverer of
an error is competent to make the necessary correction. Whatever you may
find that is erroneous, especially in the topographical features of
places, please have the kindness to forward to the compiler and enable
him to correct.

               Respectfully,
                  E. M. RUTTENBER,
                          Newburgh, N. Y.




                           INDEX.

{Transcriber's note: The page numbers indicated below refer to pages in
the separate article, "Footprints of the Redmen," and are not in sequence
with the complete published volume of proceedings.  The HTML and e-book
versions of the article have hyperlinks to the names indexed.}

{Transcriber's Note: Some of the original index entries are incorrect.
The corrected page numbers are shown in braces {p.} Alphabetical placement
errors are left as in the original.}


  Achquetuck                 177
  Achsinink                  148
  Ackinckes-hacky            104
  Adirondacks                187
  Aepjin (Sachem)             59
  Agwam (Agawam)              83
  Ahashewaghick               51
  Ahasimus                   106
  Aioskawasting         146 {145}
  Alaskayering               148
  Albany                     178
  Alipkonck                   26
  Amagansett                  83
  Amangag-arickan            168
  Anaquassacook               69
  Anthony's Nose         31, 217
  Apanammis                   33
  Appamaghpogh                30
  Aquackan-onck              104
  Aquassing                   46
  Aquebogue                   98
  Aquehung                    32
  Arackook                   139
  Arisheck                   106
  Armonck                     33
  Assawagh-kemek             224
  Assawanama                  98
  Assiskowackok              173
  Assinapink                 126
  Assup (Accup)               77
  Aschalege                  216
  Aspetong                    32
  Astenrogan                 217
  Athens                     174
  Atkarkarton                158
  Aupaumut, Hendrick          11
  Aupauquack                  98
  Aurie's Creek              210

  Basha's Land               229
  Bergen                     106

  Callicoon                  230
  Canagere                   214
  Canajohare                 214
  Canarsie                    88
  Caneray (Carenay)          191
  Caniade-rioit               70
  Caniade-riguarunte          72
  Canniengas                 189
  Canopus                     36
  Casperses Creek             44
  Cataconoche                 80
  Catskill                   170
  Caughnawaga                213
  Caumset                     96
  Cawaoge                    215
  Cayudutta                  214
  Cheesek-ook                117
  Chihocken                  229
  Chouckhass                 133
  Ciskhekainck                56
  Claverack                   55
  Cobel's Kill               216
  Cochecton                  231
  Comae                       92
  Commoenapa                 105
  Connecticut                 80
  Copake                      59
  Cronomer's Hill            130
  Cumsequ-ogue                81
  Cussqunsuck                 94
  Cutchogue                   84

  Dans Kamer            183 {138}
  DeKay, Colonel Thomas      232
  Delaware River             219
  Delawares, or Lenni-Lenape 219
  Di-ononda-howe              70
  Dutch Racks (Rechts)       234

  Eaquoris-ink                45
  Eauketaupucason             34
  Esopus                     155
  Espating                   111
  Essawatene                 121
  Etagragon                  217

  Fall-kill                   44
  Fish-kill                   37
  Fort Albany                178
  Fort Frederick             178
  Fort Orange                178
  Frudyach-kamik             162

  Ganasnix                   173
  Gentge-kamike         183 {138}
  German Flats               217
  Gesmesseecks                61
  Glens Falls           136 {186}
  Gowanus                     90
  Greenwich Village           17

  Hackingsack                104
  Hahnakrois                 177
  Hashamomuck                 99
  Hashdisch                  140
  Haverstraw                 124
  Hoboken                    107
  Hog's Island                96
  Hohokus                    115
  Honk Falls                 166
  Hoosick River               67
  Hopcogues                   85
  Horikans                    71
  Hudson's River              12

  Jamaica                     88
  Jogee Hill                 134
  Jogues (Father)   12, 185, 193

  Kackkawanick                54
  Kadarode                   209
  Kahoes (Kahoos)            200
  Kakeout                     32
  Kakiate                    116
  Kanendenra                 217
  Kaniskek                   174
  Kapsee (Kapsick)            17
  Katawamoke                  97
  Katonah (Sachem)            35
  Kaphack                     59
  Kaunaumeek                  58
  Kau-na-ong-ga              228
  Kay-au-do-ros-sa           187
  Keessienwey's Hoeck        175
  Keht-hanne                 218
  Kenagtiquak                 58
  Kerhonkson                 162
  Keschsechquereren           90
  Keshethton                 231
  Kesieway's Kill             57
  Keskeskick                  22
  Keskistk-onck               30
  Kestateuw                   88
  Ketchepunak                 85
  Kewighec-ack                29
  Kinderhook              54 {55}
  Kingston                   155
  Kiosh                       15
  Kiskatom                   174
  Kitchaminch-oke             82
  Kitchiwan                   27
  Kit Davit's Kil (Rondout)  161
  Kittatinny                  31
  Koghkehaeje (Coxackie)     176
  Koghsaraga                 188
  Koxing Kil                 168

  Lackawack                  167
  Lake Champlain              72
  Lake George                 71
  Lake Tear-of-the-clouds    185
  Little Falls               217
  Longhouse Creek            137

  Machackoesk                 58
  Machawameck                175
  Magaat-Ramis               152
  Magatsoot                  222
  Magdalen Island             46
  Maggeanapogh               151
  Maghagh-kamieck            223
  Magopson                    33
  Magow-asingh-inck          164
  Maharness                   35
  Mahask-ak-ook               52
  Mahequa                    122
  Mahopack                    36
  Mahway                     112
  Mainaitanung               113
  Mamakating                 227
  Mamaroneck                  34
  Manah-ackaquasu-wanock     101
  Manahan                    127
  Manahawaghin          106 {126}
  Manhaset                    95
  Manhattan                   13
  Mananosick                  49
  Manette                     91
  Manises                    101
  Mannhon-ake                100
  Mannepies                   23
  Manowtassquott              99
  Manuketesuck                35
  Manussing                   34
  Marechkawick                91
  Maretange Pond             145
  Marsep-inck                 93
  Maschabeneer               144
  Maskahn-ong                 87
  Maskutch-oung           84 {86}
  Massaback               85 {84}
  Massape-age                 85
  Masseks (Maskeks)          144
  Mas-seps                    86
  Masspootapaug               99
  Mastic                      79
  Mathahenaak                180
  Matinnec-ock                95
  Matouwackey (L. I.)         73
  Mattachonts                168
  Mattapan                    44
  Matteawan                   37
  Mattituck                   84
  Mawe-nawas-igh              38
  Mawichnauk                  53
  Mawighanuck                 58
  Mawignack                  171
  Mattasink                  120
  Meenahga                   230
  Meghkak-assin               24
  Menagnock                  222
  Menagh                      29
  Menisak-congue             122
  Memanusack                  94
  Memorasink                 143
  Merick                      87
  Mespaechtes                 94
  Metambeson                  46
  Minasser-oke                81
  Mingapochka                230
  Minnahan-ock                17
  Minnepaug                   99
  Minnischtan-ock             54
  Minnissingh                 45
  Minnisais                   15
  Minisink                   220
  Mistucky                   133
  Mochgonneck-onck            78
  Mochquams                   33
  Mogongh-kamigh              58
  Moggonck (Maggonck)        148
  Moharsic                    35
  Mohawk River               189
  Mohawk Castles        191, 211
  Mombackus                  169
  Mombasha                   116
  Monachnong                  16
  Monatun                     16
  Monemius Island            180
  Mongaup                    230
  Monhagen                   137
  Monowautuck                 80
  Monsey                     112
  Montauk                     75
  Mopochock             169 {167}
  Moriches                    81
  Muchito                     96
  Muhheakun'nuk               11
  Murderer's Creek           130
  Muscota                     19
  Much-Hattoes               129

  Nachaquatuck                97
  Nachawakkano                53
  Nachtenack                 180
  Nahtonk (Recktauck)         18
  Namaus                      81
  Namenock                   222
  Namke                       85
  Nanichiestawack             35
  Nannakans                   28
  Nanapenahaken               49
  Nanoseck                   161
  Napanoch                   167
  Napeak                      76
  Narranshaw                 116
  Narratschoan            Errata
  Narrioch                    90
  Navers-ing                 165
  Navish                      28
  Nawas-ink                  124
  Nepeneck                   224
  Nepah-komuk                 23
  Neperah (Nipproha)          23
  Nepestek-oak               177
  Nescotack                  143
  Neversink             102, 226
  Neweskake                  178
  Newburgh                   128
  New Fort                   142
  Niamug (Niamuck)            82
  Nickankook                  49
  Niskayune                  201
  Nissequague                 93
  Norman's Kill              179
  Norumbega                  179
  Nowadaga                   215
  Nyack                  92, 120

  Ochabacowesuck             100
  Ochmoach-ing               165
  Oghrackee                  210
  Oi-o-gue               12, 189
  Old Fort                   164
  Onekee-dsi-enos            206
  Onekagoncka                191
  Oneyagine                  217
  Oniskethau                 177
  Onuntadass                 207
  Orange                     103
  Oscawanna                   26
  Osquage (Ohquage)          215
  Ossangwack                 155
  Osserrion                  191
  Osseruenon                 191

  Pachonahellick             178
  Pachquyak                  173
  Pagganck                    15
  Pahhaoke                    67
  Palmagat                   148
  Pamerpock                  115
  Panhoosick                  67
  Paanpaach (Troy)            63
  Papinemen                   19
  Paquapick                  111
  Pasgatikook                172
  Paskaecq                   173
  Passaic                    111
  Passapenoc                  61
  Patchogue                   81
  Pattkoke                    55
  Peakadasank                146
  Peconic                     83
  Peekskill                   30
  Peenpack                   225
  Peningo                     33
  Peppineghek                 29
  Pequaock (Oyster Bay)       98
  Pequannock                 111
  Peram-sepus                112
  Perth Amboy                102
  Petuckqua-paug              35
  Petuckqua-paen              62
  Pietawickqu-assick          41
  Pishgachtigok               42
  Piskawn                     63
  Pitkiskaker                145
  Pocanteco                   25
  Pochuck                    133
  Pockotessewacke             34
  Podunk                      69
  Poesten Kill                62
  Pollepel Eiland            127
  Pompoenick                  58
  Pompton                    113
  Ponkhockie                 157
  Poosepatuck                 79
  Poplopen's Creek           125
  Poquatuck                   79
  Potic                      173
  Potunk (L. I.)             100
  Poughkeepsie                43
  Poughquag                   41
  Preumaker's Land           161
  Primary Explanations         3
  Prince's Falls             126

  Quachanock                 172
  Quahemiscos                180
  Quantuck                    87
  Quaquarion                 205
  Quarepogat                  42
  Quarepos                    33
  Quaspeck                   121
  Quassaick                  128
  Quatackqua-ohe              69
  Quatawichnack              171
  Quauntowunk                 78
  Quequick                65 {66}
  Quinnehung                  31
  Quissichkook                54
  Quogue                      87

  Ramapo                     114
  Rapahamuck                  94
  Rappoos                    153
  Raritangs                  102
  Reckgawank                 124
  Rechqua-akie                87
  Rennaquak-onck              92
  Rockaway                    87
  Roelof Jansen's Kill        47
  Ronkonkoma                 100
  Runboldt's Run             133

  Sachus (Sachoes)            30
  Sacondaga                  184
  Sacrahung                   31
  Sacut                       88
  Sagabon-ock                 85
  Sag-Harbor                  85
  Saghtekoos                  83
  Sahkaqua                    54
  Sam's Point                146
  Sanckhaick                  65
  Sankagag                   177
  Sankapogh                  125
  Saponickan                  17
  Saratoga                   180
  Saaskahampka                49
  Saugerties                 162
  Saukhenak                   47
  Schaghticoke                65
  Schakaec-kemick            226
  Scharon (Schroon)          184
  Schenectady                202
  Schodac                     59
  Schoharie                  207
  Schunnemunk                131
  Scompamuck                  59
  Senasqua                    29
  Senatsycrossy              212
  Seneyaughquan              226
  Shannondhoi                204
  Shandaken                  169
  Shappequa                   32
  Shaupook                    53
  Shawanoesberg              229
  Shawangunk                 140
  She'kom'eko                 42
  Shenandoah                  43
  Sheepshack                  63
  Shildrake                   27
  Shinnec'ock                 77
  Shokan                     165
  Shorakkapoch                21
  Sickajoock                  61
  Sickenekas                  61
  Sicktew-hacky               82
  Siesk-assin                176
  Sing-Sing                   27
  Siskakes                   111
  Sint-Sink                   95
  Skoonnenoghky              123
  Sleepy Hollow               26
  Sohanidisse                215
  Sokapach                   225
  So'was'set                  99
  Speonk                      79
  Spuyten Duyvil              21
  Stighcook                  176
  Stissing                    43
  Stoney Point               123
  Succabonk                   36
  Succasunna                 104
  Sugar-Loaf                 132
  Suggamuck                   94
  Sunquams                    84

  Taghkanick                  52
  Tammoesis                   29
  Tauquashqueick              46
  Tappans                    117
  Tawalsentha            13, 179
  Tawarataque                154
  Tehannek                   225
  Tenotoge (Tenotehage)      215
  Tenkenas                    15
  Tete-achkie                172
  Ticonderoga                 71
  Ti-oneenda-howe             69
  Tionondar-aga              208
  Titicus                     28
  Tomhenack                   65
  Torne                      117
  Tri-States Rock            224
  Tuckahoe                27, 84
  Tuxedo                     116
  Twastawekah                 54
  Twischsawkin               140
  Tyoshoke                    65

  Unsheamuck                  94

  Valatie                     59
  Van Curler's Journal  193, 194
  Vastrix Island              48
  Verkerde Kill              147

  Wachanekassick              47
  Waichachkeekok             172
  Wading River                98
  Wahamanesing                39
  Wallabout Bay               91
  Wallam                      41
  Wallumsch-ack               64
  Walpack               228 {227}
  Wanaksink                  144
  Wapemwatsjo                 58
  Wappingers' Creek           39
  Waragh-kameck               46
  Waranawonkongs             155
  Waranecks                   38
  Waronawanka                155
  Warpoes                     19
  Wassahawassing             167
  Wassaic                     41
  Watchunk                   104
  Wathoiack                  201
  Waumaniuck                  34
  Wawanaquasik                50
  Wawarasinke                166
  Wawayanda                  134
  Waweiantepakook            173
  Wawyacbtanock               45
  Wechquadnach                42
  Wehawken                   109
  Wehtak                      42
  Weputing                    42
  Weque-hackhe                36
  Wesegrorap                 116
  Whalefish Island            63
  Wiocopee                    36
  Wickaposset                 99
  Wichquapakat            52 {53}
  Wichquaskeck                24
  Wickqu-atenn-honck         144
  Wieskottine                170
  Wildmeet                   161
  Wihlahoosa                 227
  Wildwijk (Wiltwyck)        160
  Winegtekonck               132
  Wishauwemis                143
  Woerawin                   137
  Wompenanit                  74
  Wopowag                     99
  Wyandanch (Sachem)          79
  Wynokie                    115
  Wynogkee                    41

  Yaphank                     80
  Yonkers                     23




                           ERRATA.



Through an oversight in revising manuscript written several years ago,
_Narratschoan_ (page 121) was assigned to the Verdrietig Hoek Mountain.
It should have been assigned to Butter Hill, and _Klinkersberg_ should
have been assigned to the Donderberg. _Klinkers_ is from Dutch _Klinken,_
"To sound, to resound." It describes, with the suffix _-berg,_ a hard
stone mountain or hill that resounds or echoes--Echo Hill. _Narratschoan,_
the name of Butter Hill, is from _Nâï,_ "It is angular, it
corners"--"having corners or angles." (Trumbull.) The letters _-atscho_
stand for _-achtschu,_ Zeisb., _-adchu,_ Natick, "Hill or mountain," and
_-an_ is the formative. The combination may be read, "A hill that forms
an angle or corner." To recover the Indian name of Butter Hill compensates
in some degree for oversight referred to.

Brodhead (Hist. N. Y., i, 757, note), it will be seen by those who will
examine, made the same mistake in locating _Klinkersberg_ that is referred
to above. The "Vischer's Rack" or "Fisherman's Bend" was clearly the bend
around West Point. The Donderberg, or Klinkersberg is the elevation
immediately north of Stony Point.






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Proceedings of the New York Historical
Association [1906], by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PROCEEDINGS--NEW YORK HIST. ASSOC. 1906 ***

***** This file should be named 51218-0.txt or 51218-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/1/2/1/51218/

Produced by Roger Burch with scans provided by the Internet Archive.
Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


Skip to main content
ABOUT
 
CONTACT
 
BLOG
 
PROJECTS
 
heart DONATE
 
HELP
 
TERMS
 
JOBS
 
VOLUNTEER
 
PEOPLE
web
texts
movies
audio
software
image
logo
personSign In
upload
search
Full text of "Hamlet"
See other formats
Project Gutenberg Etext of Hamlet by Shakespeare
PG has multiple editions of William Shakespeare's Complete Works


Copyright laws are changing all over the world, be sure to check
the copyright laws for your country before posting these files!!

Please take a look at the important information in this header.
We encourage you to keep this file on your own disk, keeping an
electronic path open for the next readers.  Do not remove this.


**Welcome To The World of Free Plain Vanilla Electronic Texts**

**Etexts Readable By Both Humans and By Computers, Since 1971**

*These Etexts Prepared By Hundreds of Volunteers and Donations*

Information on contacting Project Gutenberg to get Etexts, and
further information is included below.  We need your donations.


Hamlet, Prince of Denmark

by William Shakespeare [Collins edition]

November, 1998 [Etext #1524]


Project Gutenberg Etext of Hamlet by Shakespeare
******This file should be named 2ws2610.txt or 2ws2610.zip******

Corrected EDITIONS of our etexts get a new NUMBER, 2ws2611.txt
VERSIONS based on separate sources get new LETTER, 2ws2610a.txt


This etext was prepared by Dianne Bean.


Project Gutenberg Etexts are usually created from multiple editions,
all of which are in the Public Domain in the United States, unless a
copyright notice is included.  Therefore, we usually do NOT! keep
these books in compliance with any particular paper edition.


We are now trying to release all our books one month in advance
of the official release dates, leaving time for better editing.

Please note:  neither this list nor its contents are final till
midnight of the last day of the month of any such announcement.
The official release date of all Project Gutenberg Etexts is at
Midnight, Central Time, of the last day of the stated month.  A
preliminary version may often be posted for suggestion, comment
and editing by those who wish to do so.  To be sure you have an
up to date first edition [xxxxx10x.xxx] please check file sizes
in the first week of the next month.  Since our ftp program has
a bug in it that scrambles the date [tried to fix and failed] a
look at the file size will have to do, but we will try to see a
new copy has at least one byte more or less.


Information about Project Gutenberg (one page)

We produce about two million dollars for each hour we work.  The
time it takes us, a rather conservative estimate, is fifty hours
to get any etext selected, entered, proofread, edited, copyright
searched and analyzed, the copyright letters written, etc.  This
projected audience is one hundred million readers.  If our value
per text is nominally estimated at one dollar then we produce $2
million dollars per hour this year as we release thirty-six text
files per month, or 432 more Etexts in 1999 for a total of 2000+
If these reach just 10% of the computerized population, then the
total should reach over 200 billion Etexts given away this year.

The Goal of Project Gutenberg is to Give Away One Trillion Etext
Files by December 31, 2001.  [10,000 x 100,000,000 = 1 Trillion]
This is ten thousand titles each to one hundred million readers,
which is only ~5% of the present number of computer users.

At our revised rates of production, we will reach only one-third
of that goal by the end of 2001, or about 3,333 Etexts unless we
manage to get some real funding; currently our funding is mostly
from Michael Hart's salary at Carnegie-Mellon University, and an
assortment of sporadic gifts; this salary is only good for a few
more years, so we are looking for something to replace it, as we
don't want Project Gutenberg to be so dependent on one person.

We need your donations more than ever!


All donations should be made to "Project Gutenberg/CMU": and are
tax deductible to the extent allowable by law.  (CMU = Carnegie-
Mellon University).

For these and other matters, please mail to:

Project Gutenberg
P. O. Box  2782
Champaign, IL 61825

When all other email fails. . .try our Executive Director:
Michael S. Hart <hart@pobox.com>
hart@pobox.com forwards to hart@prairienet.org and archive.org
if your mail bounces from archive.org, I will still see it, if
it bounces from prairienet.org, better resend later on. . . .

We would prefer to send you this information by email.

******

To access Project Gutenberg etexts, use any Web browser
to view http://promo.net/pg.  This site lists Etexts by
author and by title, and includes information about how
to get involved with Project Gutenberg.  You could also
download our past Newsletters, or subscribe here.  This
is one of our major sites, please email hart@pobox.com,
for a more complete list of our various sites.

To go directly to the etext collections, use FTP or any
Web browser to visit a Project Gutenberg mirror (mirror
sites are available on 7 continents; mirrors are listed
at http://promo.net/pg).

Mac users, do NOT point and click, typing works better.

Example FTP session:

ftp sunsite.unc.edu
login: anonymous
password: your@login
cd pub/docs/books/gutenberg
cd etext90 through etext99
dir [to see files]
get or mget [to get files. . .set bin for zip files]
GET GUTINDEX.??  [to get a year's listing of books, e.g., GUTINDEX.99]
GET GUTINDEX.ALL [to get a listing of ALL books]

***

**Information prepared by the Project Gutenberg legal advisor**

(Three Pages)


***START**THE SMALL PRINT!**FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS**START***
Why is this "Small Print!" statement here?  You know: lawyers.
They tell us you might sue us if there is something wrong with
your copy of this etext, even if you got it for free from
someone other than us, and even if what's wrong is not our
fault.  So, among other things, this "Small Print!" statement
disclaims most of our liability to you.  It also tells you how
you can distribute copies of this etext if you want to.

*BEFORE!* YOU USE OR READ THIS ETEXT
By using or reading any part of this PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
etext, you indicate that you understand, agree to and accept
this "Small Print!" statement.  If you do not, you can receive
a refund of the money (if any) you paid for this etext by
sending a request within 30 days of receiving it to the person
you got it from.  If you received this etext on a physical
medium (such as a disk), you must return it with your request.

ABOUT PROJECT GUTENBERG-TM ETEXTS
This PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext, like most PROJECT GUTENBERG-
tm etexts, is a "public domain" work distributed by Professor
Michael S. Hart through the Project Gutenberg Association at
Carnegie-Mellon University (the "Project").  Among other
things, this means that no one owns a United States copyright
on or for this work, so the Project (and you!) can copy and
distribute it in the United States without permission and
without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules, set forth
below, apply if you wish to copy and distribute this etext
under the Project's "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark.

To create these etexts, the Project expends considerable
efforts to identify, transcribe and proofread public domain
works.  Despite these efforts, the Project's etexts and any
medium they may be on may contain "Defects".  Among other
things, Defects may take the form of incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged
disk or other etext medium, a computer virus, or computer
codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment.

LIMITED WARRANTY; DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES
But for the "Right of Replacement or Refund" described below,
[1] the Project (and any other party you may receive this
etext from as a PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext) disclaims all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including
legal fees, and [2] YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE OR
UNDER STRICT LIABILITY, OR FOR BREACH OF WARRANTY OR CONTRACT,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE
OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

If you discover a Defect in this etext within 90 days of
receiving it, you can receive a refund of the money (if any)
you paid for it by sending an explanatory note within that
time to the person you received it from.  If you received it
on a physical medium, you must return it with your note, and
such person may choose to alternatively give you a replacement
copy.  If you received it electronically, such person may
choose to alternatively give you a second opportunity to
receive it electronically.

THIS ETEXT IS OTHERWISE PROVIDED TO YOU "AS-IS".  NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARE MADE TO YOU AS
TO THE ETEXT OR ANY MEDIUM IT MAY BE ON, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Some states do not allow disclaimers of implied warranties or
the exclusion or limitation of consequential damages, so the
above disclaimers and exclusions may not apply to you, and you
may have other legal rights.

INDEMNITY
You will indemnify and hold the Project, its directors,
officers, members and agents harmless from all liability, cost
and expense, including legal fees, that arise directly or
indirectly from any of the following that you do or cause:
[1] distribution of this etext, [2] alteration, modification,
or addition to the etext, or [3] any Defect.

DISTRIBUTION UNDER "PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm"
You may distribute copies of this etext electronically, or by
disk, book or any other medium if you either delete this
"Small Print!" and all other references to Project Gutenberg,
or:

[1]  Only give exact copies of it.  Among other things, this
     requires that you do not remove, alter or modify the
     etext or this "small print!" statement.  You may however,
     if you wish, distribute this etext in machine readable
     binary, compressed, mark-up, or proprietary form,
     including any form resulting from conversion by word pro-
     cessing or hypertext software, but only so long as
     *EITHER*:

     [*]  The etext, when displayed, is clearly readable, and
          does *not* contain characters other than those
          intended by the author of the work, although tilde
          (~), asterisk (*) and underline (_) characters may
          be used to convey punctuation intended by the
          author, and additional characters may be used to
          indicate hypertext links; OR

     [*]  The etext may be readily converted by the reader at
          no expense into plain ASCII, EBCDIC or equivalent
          form by the program that displays the etext (as is
          the case, for instance, with most word processors);
          OR

     [*]  You provide, or agree to also provide on request at
          no additional cost, fee or expense, a copy of the
          etext in its original plain ASCII form (or in EBCDIC
          or other equivalent proprietary form).

[2]  Honor the etext refund and replacement provisions of this
     "Small Print!" statement.

[3]  Pay a trademark license fee to the Project of 20% of the
     net profits you derive calculated using the method you
     already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  If you
     don't derive profits, no royalty is due.  Royalties are
     payable to "Project Gutenberg Association/Carnegie-Mellon
     University" within the 60 days following each
     date you prepare (or were legally required to prepare)
     your annual (or equivalent periodic) tax return.

WHAT IF YOU *WANT* TO SEND MONEY EVEN IF YOU DON'T HAVE TO?
The Project gratefully accepts contributions in money, time,
scanning machines, OCR software, public domain etexts, royalty
free copyright licenses, and every other sort of contribution
you can think of.  Money should be paid to "Project Gutenberg
Association / Carnegie-Mellon University".

*END*THE SMALL PRINT! FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS*Ver.04.29.93*END*





This etext was prepared by Dianne Bean.





HAMLET, PRINCE OF DENMARK

by William Shakespeare




PERSONS REPRESENTED.

Claudius, King of Denmark.
Hamlet, Son to the former, and Nephew to the present King.
Polonius, Lord Chamberlain.
Horatio, Friend to Hamlet.
Laertes, Son to Polonius.
Voltimand, Courtier.
Cornelius, Courtier.
Rosencrantz, Courtier.
Guildenstern, Courtier.
Osric, Courtier.
A Gentleman, Courtier.
A Priest.
Marcellus, Officer.
Bernardo, Officer.
Francisco, a Soldier
Reynaldo, Servant to Polonius.
Players.
Two Clowns, Grave-diggers.
Fortinbras, Prince of Norway.
A Captain.
English Ambassadors.
Ghost of Hamlet's Father.

Gertrude, Queen of Denmark, and Mother of Hamlet.
Ophelia, Daughter to Polonius.

Lords, Ladies, Officers, Soldiers, Sailors, Messengers, and other
Attendants.

SCENE. Elsinore.



ACT I.

Scene I. Elsinore. A platform before the Castle.

[Francisco at his post. Enter to him Bernardo.]

Ber.
Who's there?

Fran.
Nay, answer me: stand, and unfold yourself.

Ber.
Long live the king!

Fran.
Bernardo?

Ber.
He.

Fran.
You come most carefully upon your hour.

Ber.
'Tis now struck twelve. Get thee to bed, Francisco.

Fran.
For this relief much thanks: 'tis bitter cold,
And I am sick at heart.

Ber.
Have you had quiet guard?

Fran.
Not a mouse stirring.

Ber.
Well, good night.
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.

Fran.
I think I hear them.--Stand, ho! Who is there?

[Enter Horatio and Marcellus.]

Hor.
Friends to this ground.

Mar.
And liegemen to the Dane.

Fran.
Give you good-night.

Mar.
O, farewell, honest soldier;
Who hath reliev'd you?

Fran.
Bernardo has my place.
Give you good-night.

[Exit.]

Mar.
Holla! Bernardo!

Ber.
Say.
What, is Horatio there?

Hor.
A piece of him.

Ber.
Welcome, Horatio:--Welcome, good Marcellus.

Mar.
What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?

Ber.
I have seen nothing.

Mar.
Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy,
And will not let belief take hold of him
Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us:
Therefore I have entreated him along
With us to watch the minutes of this night;
That, if again this apparition come
He may approve our eyes and speak to it.

Hor.
Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.

Ber.
Sit down awhile,
And let us once again assail your ears,
That are so fortified against our story,
What we two nights have seen.

Hor.
Well, sit we down,
And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.

Ber.
Last night of all,
When yond same star that's westward from the pole
Had made his course to illume that part of heaven
Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
The bell then beating one,--

Mar.
Peace, break thee off; look where it comes again!

[Enter Ghost, armed.]

Ber.
In the same figure, like the king that's dead.

Mar.
Thou art a scholar; speak to it, Horatio.

Ber.
Looks it not like the King? mark it, Horatio.

Hor.
Most like:--it harrows me with fear and wonder.

Ber.
It would be spoke to.

Mar.
Question it, Horatio.

Hor.
What art thou, that usurp'st this time of night,
Together with that fair and warlike form
In which the majesty of buried Denmark
Did sometimes march? By heaven I charge thee, speak!

Mar.
It is offended.

Ber.
See, it stalks away!

Hor.
Stay! speak, speak! I charge thee speak!

[Exit Ghost.]

Mar.
'Tis gone, and will not answer.

Ber.
How now, Horatio! You tremble and look pale:
Is not this something more than fantasy?
What think you on't?

Hor.
Before my God, I might not this believe
Without the sensible and true avouch
Of mine own eyes.

Mar.
Is it not like the King?

Hor.
As thou art to thyself:
Such was the very armour he had on
When he the ambitious Norway combated;
So frown'd he once when, in an angry parle,
He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
'Tis strange.

Mar.
Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.

Hor.
In what particular thought to work I know not;
But, in the gross and scope of my opinion,
This bodes some strange eruption to our state.

Mar.
Good now, sit down, and tell me, he that knows,
Why this same strict and most observant watch
So nightly toils the subject of the land;
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon,
And foreign mart for implements of war;
Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
Does not divide the Sunday from the week;
What might be toward, that this sweaty haste
Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day:
Who is't that can inform me?

Hor.
That can I;
At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
Dar'd to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet,--
For so this side of our known world esteem'd him,--
Did slay this Fortinbras; who, by a seal'd compact,
Well ratified by law and heraldry,
Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands,
Which he stood seiz'd of, to the conqueror:
Against the which, a moiety competent
Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
Had he been vanquisher; as by the same cov'nant,
And carriage of the article design'd,
His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
Of unimproved mettle hot and full,
Hath in the skirts of Norway, here and there,
Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes,
For food and diet, to some enterprise
That hath a stomach in't; which is no other,--
As it doth well appear unto our state,--
But to recover of us, by strong hand,
And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
So by his father lost: and this, I take it,
Is the main motive of our preparations,
The source of this our watch, and the chief head
Of this post-haste and romage in the land.

Ber.
I think it be no other but e'en so:
Well may it sort, that this portentous figure
Comes armed through our watch; so like the king
That was and is the question of these wars.

Hor.
A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
The graves stood tenantless, and the sheeted dead
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets;
As, stars with trains of fire and dews of blood,
Disasters in the sun; and the moist star,
Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands,
Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse:
And even the like precurse of fierce events,--
As harbingers preceding still the fates,
And prologue to the omen coming on,--
Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
Unto our climature and countrymen.--
But, soft, behold! lo, where it comes again!

[Re-enter Ghost.]

I'll cross it, though it blast me.--Stay, illusion!
If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
Speak to me:
If there be any good thing to be done,
That may to thee do ease, and, race to me,
Speak to me:
If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
Which, happily, foreknowing may avoid,
O, speak!
Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
Extorted treasure in the womb of earth,
For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death,
[The cock crows.]
Speak of it:--stay, and speak!--Stop it, Marcellus!

Mar.
Shall I strike at it with my partisan?

Hor.
Do, if it will not stand.

Ber.
'Tis here!

Hor.
'Tis here!

Mar.
'Tis gone!

[Exit Ghost.]

We do it wrong, being so majestical,
To offer it the show of violence;
For it is, as the air, invulnerable,
And our vain blows malicious mockery.

Ber.
It was about to speak, when the cock crew.

Hor.
And then it started, like a guilty thing
Upon a fearful summons. I have heard
The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
Awake the god of day; and at his warning,
Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
The extravagant and erring spirit hies
To his confine: and of the truth herein
This present object made probation.

Mar.
It faded on the crowing of the cock.
Some say that ever 'gainst that season comes
Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
The bird of dawning singeth all night long;
And then, they say, no spirit dare stir abroad;
The nights are wholesome; then no planets strike,
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm;
So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.

Hor.
So have I heard, and do in part believe it.
But, look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill:
Break we our watch up: and by my advice,
Let us impart what we have seen to-night
Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him:
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?

Mar.
Let's do't, I pray; and I this morning know
Where we shall find him most conveniently.

[Exeunt.]



Scene II. Elsinore. A room of state in the Castle.

[Enter the King, Queen, Hamlet, Polonius, Laertes, Voltimand,
Cornelius, Lords, and Attendant.]

King.
Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
The memory be green, and that it us befitted
To bear our hearts in grief, and our whole kingdom
To be contracted in one brow of woe;
Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
That we with wisest sorrow think on him,
Together with remembrance of ourselves.
Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
Th' imperial jointress to this warlike state,
Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,--
With an auspicious and one dropping eye,
With mirth in funeral, and with dirge in marriage,
In equal scale weighing delight and dole,--
Taken to wife; nor have we herein barr'd
Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone
With this affair along:--or all, our thanks.
Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
Colleagued with this dream of his advantage,
He hath not fail'd to pester us with message,
Importing the surrender of those lands
Lost by his father, with all bonds of law,
To our most valiant brother. So much for him,--
Now for ourself and for this time of meeting:
Thus much the business is:--we have here writ
To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,--
Who, impotent and bed-rid, scarcely hears
Of this his nephew's purpose,--to suppress
His further gait herein; in that the levies,
The lists, and full proportions are all made
Out of his subject:--and we here dispatch
You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltimand,
For bearers of this greeting to old Norway;
Giving to you no further personal power
To business with the king, more than the scope
Of these dilated articles allow.
Farewell; and let your haste commend your duty.

Cor. and Volt.
In that and all things will we show our duty.

King.
We doubt it nothing: heartily farewell.

[Exeunt Voltimand and Cornelius.]

And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
You told us of some suit; what is't, Laertes?
You cannot speak of reason to the Dane,
And lose your voice: what wouldst thou beg, Laertes,
That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
The head is not more native to the heart,
The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
What wouldst thou have, Laertes?

Laer.
Dread my lord,
Your leave and favour to return to France;
From whence though willingly I came to Denmark,
To show my duty in your coronation;
Yet now, I must confess, that duty done,
My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France,
And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.

King.
Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?

Pol.
He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
By laboursome petition; and at last
Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent:
I do beseech you, give him leave to go.

King.
Take thy fair hour, Laertes; time be thine,
And thy best graces spend it at thy will!--
But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son--

Ham.
[Aside.] A little more than kin, and less than kind!

King.
How is it that the clouds still hang on you?

Ham.
Not so, my lord; I am too much i' the sun.

Queen.
Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted colour off,
And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
Seek for thy noble father in the dust:
Thou know'st 'tis common,--all that lives must die,
Passing through nature to eternity.

Ham.
Ay, madam, it is common.

Queen.
If it be,
Why seems it so particular with thee?

Ham.
Seems, madam! Nay, it is; I know not seems.
'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
Nor customary suits of solemn black,
Nor windy suspiration of forc'd breath,
No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
Nor the dejected 'havior of the visage,
Together with all forms, moods, shows of grief,
That can denote me truly: these, indeed, seem;
For they are actions that a man might play;
But I have that within which passeth show;
These but the trappings and the suits of woe.

King.
'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
To give these mourning duties to your father;
But, you must know, your father lost a father;
That father lost, lost his; and the survivor bound,
In filial obligation, for some term
To do obsequious sorrow: but to persevere
In obstinate condolement is a course
Of impious stubbornness; 'tis unmanly grief;
It shows a will most incorrect to heaven;
A heart unfortified, a mind impatient;
An understanding simple and unschool'd;
For what we know must be, and is as common
As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
Why should we, in our peevish opposition,
Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
To reason most absurd; whose common theme
Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
From the first corse till he that died to-day,
'This must be so.' We pray you, throw to earth
This unprevailing woe; and think of us
As of a father: for let the world take note
You are the most immediate to our throne;
And with no less nobility of love
Than that which dearest father bears his son
Do I impart toward you. For your intent
In going back to school in Wittenberg,
It is most retrograde to our desire:
And we beseech you bend you to remain
Here in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.

Queen.
Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet:
I pray thee stay with us; go not to Wittenberg.

Ham.
I shall in all my best obey you, madam.

King.
Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply:
Be as ourself in Denmark.--Madam, come;
This gentle and unforc'd accord of Hamlet
Sits smiling to my heart: in grace whereof,
No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day
But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell;
And the king's rouse the heaven shall bruit again,
Re-speaking earthly thunder. Come away.

[Exeunt all but Hamlet.]

Ham.
O that this too too solid flesh would melt,
Thaw, and resolve itself into a dew!
Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd
His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! O God!
How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable
Seem to me all the uses of this world!
Fie on't! O fie! 'tis an unweeded garden,
That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
But two months dead!--nay, not so much, not two:
So excellent a king; that was, to this,
Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother,
That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
Must I remember? Why, she would hang on him
As if increase of appetite had grown
By what it fed on: and yet, within a month,--
Let me not think on't,--Frailty, thy name is woman!--
A little month; or ere those shoes were old
With which she followed my poor father's body
Like Niobe, all tears;--why she, even she,--
O God! a beast that wants discourse of reason,
Would have mourn'd longer,--married with mine uncle,
My father's brother; but no more like my father
Than I to Hercules: within a month;
Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
She married:-- O, most wicked speed, to post
With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
It is not, nor it cannot come to good;
But break my heart,--for I must hold my tongue!

[Enter Horatio, Marcellus, and Bernardo.]

Hor.
Hail to your lordship!

Ham.
I am glad to see you well:
Horatio,--or I do forget myself.

Hor.
The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.

Ham.
Sir, my good friend; I'll change that name with you:
And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio?--
Marcellus?

Mar.
My good lord,--

Ham.
I am very glad to see you.--Good even, sir.--
But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?

Hor.
A truant disposition, good my lord.

Ham.
I would not hear your enemy say so;
Nor shall you do my ear that violence,
To make it truster of your own report
Against yourself: I know you are no truant.
But what is your affair in Elsinore?
We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.

Hor.
My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.

Ham.
I prithee do not mock me, fellow-student.
I think it was to see my mother's wedding.

Hor.
Indeed, my lord, it follow'd hard upon.

Ham.
Thrift, thrift, Horatio! The funeral bak'd meats
Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!--
My father,--methinks I see my father.

Hor.
Where, my lord?

Ham.
In my mind's eye, Horatio.

Hor.
I saw him once; he was a goodly king.

Ham.
He was a man, take him for all in all,
I shall not look upon his like again.

Hor.
My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.

Ham.
Saw who?

Hor.
My lord, the king your father.

Ham.
The King my father!

Hor.
Season your admiration for awhile
With an attent ear, till I may deliver,
Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
This marvel to you.

Ham.
For God's love let me hear.

Hor.
Two nights together had these gentlemen,
Marcellus and Bernardo, on their watch
In the dead vast and middle of the night,
Been thus encounter'd. A figure like your father,
Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
Appears before them and with solemn march
Goes slow and stately by them: thrice he walk'd
By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
Within his truncheon's length; whilst they, distill'd
Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
Stand dumb, and speak not to him. This to me
In dreadful secrecy impart they did;
And I with them the third night kept the watch:
Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
The apparition comes: I knew your father;
These hands are not more like.

Ham.
But where was this?

Mar.
My lord, upon the platform where we watch'd.

Ham.
Did you not speak to it?

Hor.
My lord, I did;
But answer made it none: yet once methought
It lifted up it head, and did address
Itself to motion, like as it would speak:
But even then the morning cock crew loud,
And at the sound it shrunk in haste away,
And vanish'd from our sight.

Ham.
'Tis very strange.

Hor.
As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;
And we did think it writ down in our duty
To let you know of it.

Ham.
Indeed, indeed, sirs, but this troubles me.
Hold you the watch to-night?

Mar. and Ber.
We do, my lord.

Ham.
Arm'd, say you?

Both.
Arm'd, my lord.

Ham.
From top to toe?

Both.
My lord, from head to foot.

Ham.
Then saw you not his face?

Hor.
O, yes, my lord: he wore his beaver up.

Ham.
What, look'd he frowningly?

Hor.
A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.

Ham.
Pale or red?

Hor.
Nay, very pale.

Ham.
And fix'd his eyes upon you?

Hor.
Most constantly.

Ham.
I would I had been there.

Hor.
It would have much amaz'd you.

Ham.
Very like, very like. Stay'd it long?

Hor.
While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.

Mar. and Ber.
Longer, longer.

Hor.
Not when I saw't.

Ham.
His beard was grizzled,--no?

Hor.
It was, as I have seen it in his life,
A sable silver'd.

Ham.
I will watch to-night;
Perchance 'twill walk again.

Hor.
I warr'nt it will.

Ham.
If it assume my noble father's person,
I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
Let it be tenable in your silence still;
And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
Give it an understanding, but no tongue:
I will requite your loves. So, fare ye well:
Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
I'll visit you.

All.
Our duty to your honour.

Ham.
Your loves, as mine to you: farewell.

[Exeunt Horatio, Marcellus, and Bernardo.]

My father's spirit in arms! All is not well;
I doubt some foul play: would the night were come!
Till then sit still, my soul: foul deeds will rise,
Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.

[Exit.]



Scene III. A room in Polonius's house.

[Enter Laertes and Ophelia.]

Laer.
My necessaries are embark'd: farewell:
And, sister, as the winds give benefit
And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
But let me hear from you.

Oph.
Do you doubt that?

Laer.
For Hamlet, and the trifling of his favour,
Hold it a fashion, and a toy in blood:
A violet in the youth of primy nature,
Forward, not permanent, sweet, not lasting;
The perfume and suppliance of a minute;
No more.

Oph.
No more but so?

Laer.
Think it no more:
For nature, crescent, does not grow alone
In thews and bulk; but as this temple waxes,
The inward service of the mind and soul
Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now;
And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
The virtue of his will: but you must fear,
His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
For he himself is subject to his birth:
He may not, as unvalu'd persons do,
Carve for himself; for on his choice depends
The safety and health of this whole state;
And therefore must his choice be circumscrib'd
Unto the voice and yielding of that body
Whereof he is the head. Then if he says he loves you,
It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
As he in his particular act and place
May give his saying deed; which is no further
Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain
If with too credent ear you list his songs,
Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
To his unmaster'd importunity.
Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister;
And keep you in the rear of your affection,
Out of the shot and danger of desire.
The chariest maid is prodigal enough
If she unmask her beauty to the moon:
Virtue itself scopes not calumnious strokes:
The canker galls the infants of the spring
Too oft before their buttons be disclos'd:
And in the morn and liquid dew of youth
Contagious blastments are most imminent.
Be wary then; best safety lies in fear:
Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.

Oph.
I shall th' effect of this good lesson keep
As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother,
Do not, as some ungracious pastors do,
Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven;
Whilst, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads
And recks not his own read.

Laer.
O, fear me not.
I stay too long:--but here my father comes.

[Enter Polonius.]

A double blessing is a double grace;
Occasion smiles upon a second leave.

Pol.
Yet here, Laertes! aboard, aboard, for shame!
The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
And you are stay'd for. There,--my blessing with thee!

[Laying his hand on Laertes's head.]

And these few precepts in thy memory
Look thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
Nor any unproportion'd thought his act.
Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar.
Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
Grapple them unto thy soul with hoops of steel;
But do not dull thy palm with entertainment
Of each new-hatch'd, unfledg'd comrade. Beware
Of entrance to a quarrel; but, being in,
Bear't that the opposed may beware of thee.
Give every man thine ear, but few thy voice:
Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,
But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy:
For the apparel oft proclaims the man;
And they in France of the best rank and station
Are most select and generous chief in that.
Neither a borrower nor a lender be:
For loan oft loses both itself and friend;
And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
This above all,--to thine own self be true;
And it must follow, as the night the day,
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
Farewell: my blessing season this in thee!

Laer.
Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.

Pol.
The time invites you; go, your servants tend.

Laer.
Farewell, Ophelia; and remember well
What I have said to you.

Oph.
'Tis in my memory lock'd,
And you yourself shall keep the key of it.

Laer.
Farewell.

[Exit.]

Pol.
What is't, Ophelia, he hath said to you?

Oph.
So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.

Pol.
Marry, well bethought:
'Tis told me he hath very oft of late
Given private time to you; and you yourself
Have of your audience been most free and bounteous;
If it be so,--as so 'tis put on me,
And that in way of caution,--I must tell you
You do not understand yourself so clearly
As it behooves my daughter and your honour.
What is between you? give me up the truth.

Oph.
He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
Of his affection to me.

Pol.
Affection! pooh! you speak like a green girl,
Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?

Oph.
I do not know, my lord, what I should think.

Pol.
Marry, I'll teach you: think yourself a baby;
That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly;
Or,--not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
Wronging it thus,--you'll tender me a fool.

Oph.
My lord, he hath importun'd me with love
In honourable fashion.

Pol.
Ay, fashion you may call it; go to, go to.

Oph.
And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord,
With almost all the holy vows of heaven.

Pol.
Ay, springes to catch woodcocks. I do know,
When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
Lends the tongue vows: these blazes, daughter,
Giving more light than heat,--extinct in both,
Even in their promise, as it is a-making,--
You must not take for fire. From this time
Be something scanter of your maiden presence;
Set your entreatments at a higher rate
Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
Believe so much in him, that he is young;
And with a larger tether may he walk
Than may be given you: in few, Ophelia,
Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,--
Not of that dye which their investments show,
But mere implorators of unholy suits,
Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
The better to beguile. This is for all,--
I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth
Have you so slander any moment leisure
As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
Look to't, I charge you; come your ways.

Oph.
I shall obey, my lord.

[Exeunt.]



Scene IV. The platform.

[Enter Hamlet, Horatio, and Marcellus.]

Ham.
The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.

Hor.
It is a nipping and an eager air.

Ham.
What hour now?

Hor.
I think it lacks of twelve.

Mar.
No, it is struck.

Hor.
Indeed? I heard it not: then draws near the season
Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.

[A flourish of trumpets, and ordnance shot off within.]

What does this mean, my lord?

Ham.
The King doth wake to-night and takes his rouse,
Keeps wassail, and the swaggering up-spring reels;
And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
The kettle-drum and trumpet thus bray out
The triumph of his pledge.

Hor.
Is it a custom?

Ham.
Ay, marry, is't;
But to my mind,--though I am native here,
And to the manner born,--it is a custom
More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
This heavy-headed revel east and west
Makes us traduc'd and tax'd of other nations:
They clepe us drunkards, and with swinish phrase
Soil our addition; and, indeed, it takes
From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
The pith and marrow of our attribute.
So oft it chances in particular men
That, for some vicious mole of nature in them,
As in their birth,--wherein they are not guilty,
Since nature cannot choose his origin,--
By the o'ergrowth of some complexion,
Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason;
Or by some habit, that too much o'er-leavens
The form of plausive manners;--that these men,--
Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,--
Their virtues else,--be they as pure as grace,
As infinite as man may undergo,--
Shall in the general censure take corruption
From that particular fault: the dram of eale
Doth all the noble substance often doubt
To his own scandal.

Hor.
Look, my lord, it comes!

[Enter Ghost.]

Ham.
Angels and ministers of grace defend us!--
Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
Thou com'st in such a questionable shape
That I will speak to thee: I'll call thee Hamlet,
King, father, royal Dane; O, answer me!
Let me not burst in ignorance; but tell
Why thy canoniz'd bones, hearsed in death,
Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre,
Wherein we saw thee quietly in-urn'd,
Hath op'd his ponderous and marble jaws
To cast thee up again! What may this mean,
That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel,
Revisit'st thus the glimpses of the moon,
Making night hideous, and we fools of nature
So horridly to shake our disposition
With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
Say, why is this? wherefore? what should we do?

[Ghost beckons Hamlet.]

Hor.
It beckons you to go away with it,
As if it some impartment did desire
To you alone.

Mar.
Look with what courteous action
It waves you to a more removed ground:
But do not go with it!

Hor.
No, by no means.

Ham.
It will not speak; then will I follow it.

Hor.
Do not, my lord.

Ham.
Why, what should be the fear?
I do not set my life at a pin's fee;
And for my soul, what can it do to that,
Being a thing immortal as itself?
It waves me forth again;--I'll follow it.

Hor.
What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
And there assume some other horrible form
Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason,
And draw you into madness? think of it:
The very place puts toys of desperation,
Without more motive, into every brain
That looks so many fadoms to the sea
And hears it roar beneath.

Ham.
It waves me still.--
Go on; I'll follow thee.

Mar.
You shall not go, my lord.

Ham.
Hold off your hands.

Hor.
Be rul'd; you shall not go.

Ham.
My fate cries out,
And makes each petty artery in this body
As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.--

[Ghost beckons.]

Still am I call'd;--unhand me, gentlemen;--

[Breaking free from them.]

By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me!--
I say, away!--Go on; I'll follow thee.

[Exeunt Ghost and Hamlet.]

Hor.
He waxes desperate with imagination.

Mar.
Let's follow; 'tis not fit thus to obey him.

Hor.
Have after.--To what issue will this come?

Mar.
Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.

Hor.
Heaven will direct it.

Mar.
Nay, let's follow him.

[Exeunt.]



Scene V. A more remote part of the Castle.

[Enter Ghost and Hamlet.]

Ham.
Whither wilt thou lead me? speak! I'll go no further.

Ghost.
Mark me.

Ham.
I will.

Ghost.
My hour is almost come,
When I to sulph'uous and tormenting flames
Must render up myself.

Ham.
Alas, poor ghost!

Ghost.
Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
To what I shall unfold.

Ham.
Speak;I am bound to hear.

Ghost.
So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.

Ham.
What?

Ghost.
I am thy father's spirit;
Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
And for the day confin'd to wastein fires,
Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
Are burnt and purg'd away. But that I am forbid
To tell the secrets of my prison-house,
I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
Would harrow up thy soul; freeze thy young blood;
Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres;
Thy knotted and combined locks to part,
And each particular hair to stand on end
Like quills upon the fretful porcupine:
But this eternal blazon must not be
To ears of flesh and blood.--List, list, O, list!--
If thou didst ever thy dear father love--

Ham.
O God!

Ghost.
Revenge his foul and most unnatural murder.

Ham.
Murder!

Ghost.
Murder most foul, as in the best it is;
But this most foul, strange, and unnatural.

Ham.
Haste me to know't, that I, with wings as swift
As meditation or the thoughts of love,
May sweep to my revenge.

Ghost.
I find thee apt;
And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed
That rots itself in ease on Lethe wharf,
Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear.
'Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
A serpent stung me; so the whole ear of Denmark
Is by a forged process of my death
Rankly abus'd; but know, thou noble youth,
The serpent that did sting thy father's life
Now wears his crown.

Ham.
O my prophetic soul!
Mine uncle!

Ghost.
Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast,
With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts,--
O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
So to seduce!--won to his shameful lust
The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen:
O Hamlet, what a falling-off was there!
From me, whose love was of that dignity
That it went hand in hand even with the vow
I made to her in marriage; and to decline
Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor
To those of mine!
But virtue, as it never will be mov'd,
Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven;
So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
Will sate itself in a celestial bed
And prey on garbage.
But soft! methinks I scent the morning air;
Brief let me be.--Sleeping within my orchard,
My custom always of the afternoon,
Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
With juice of cursed hebenon in a vial,
And in the porches of my ears did pour
The leperous distilment; whose effect
Holds such an enmity with blood of man
That, swift as quicksilver, it courses through
The natural gates and alleys of the body;
And with a sudden vigour it doth posset
And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
The thin and wholesome blood; so did it mine;
And a most instant tetter bark'd about,
Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust
All my smooth body.
Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand,
Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd:
Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
Unhous'led, disappointed, unanel'd;
No reckoning made, but sent to my account
With all my imperfections on my head:
O, horrible! O, horrible! most horrible!
If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not;
Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
A couch for luxury and damned incest.
But, howsoever thou pursu'st this act,
Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
Against thy mother aught: leave her to heaven,
And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge,
To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once!
The glowworm shows the matin to be near,
And 'gins to pale his uneffectual fire:
Adieu, adieu! Hamlet, remember me.

[Exit.]

Ham.
O all you host of heaven! O earth! what else?
And shall I couple hell? O, fie!--Hold, my heart;
And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
But bear me stiffly up.--Remember thee!
Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
In this distracted globe. Remember thee!
Yea, from the table of my memory
I'll wipe away all trivial fond records,
All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past,
That youth and observation copied there;
And thy commandment all alone shall live
Within the book and volume of my brain,
Unmix'd with baser matter: yes, by heaven!--
O most pernicious woman!
O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
My tables,--meet it is I set it down,
That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
At least, I am sure, it may be so in Denmark:

[Writing.]

So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word;
It is 'Adieu, adieu! remember me:'
I have sworn't.

Hor.
[Within.] My lord, my lord,--

Mar.
[Within.] Lord Hamlet,--

Hor.
[Within.] Heaven secure him!

Ham.
So be it!

Mar.
[Within.] Illo, ho, ho, my lord!

Ham.
Hillo, ho, ho, boy! Come, bird, come.

[Enter Horatio and Marcellus.]

Mar.
How is't, my noble lord?

Hor.
What news, my lord?

Ham.
O, wonderful!

Hor.
Good my lord, tell it.

Ham.
No; you'll reveal it.

Hor.
Not I, my lord, by heaven.

Mar.
Nor I, my lord.

Ham.
How say you then; would heart of man once think it?--
But you'll be secret?

Hor. and Mar.
Ay, by heaven, my lord.

Ham.
There's ne'er a villain dwelling in all Denmark
But he's an arrant knave.

Hor.
There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
To tell us this.

Ham.
Why, right; you are i' the right;
And so, without more circumstance at all,
I hold it fit that we shake hands and part:
You, as your business and desires shall point you,--
For every man hath business and desire,
Such as it is;--and for my own poor part,
Look you, I'll go pray.

Hor.
These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.

Ham.
I'm sorry they offend you, heartily;
Yes, faith, heartily.

Hor.
There's no offence, my lord.

Ham.
Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
And much offence too. Touching this vision here,--
It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you:
For your desire to know what is between us,
O'ermaster't as you may. And now, good friends,
As you are friends, scholars, and soldiers,
Give me one poor request.

Hor.
What is't, my lord? we will.

Ham.
Never make known what you have seen to-night.

Hor. and Mar.
My lord, we will not.

Ham.
Nay, but swear't.

Hor.
In faith,
My lord, not I.

Mar.
Nor I, my lord, in faith.

Ham.
Upon my sword.

Mar.
We have sworn, my lord, already.

Ham.
Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.

Ghost.
[Beneath.] Swear.

Ham.
Ha, ha boy! say'st thou so? art thou there, truepenny?--
Come on!--you hear this fellow in the cellarage,--
Consent to swear.

Hor.
Propose the oath, my lord.

Ham.
Never to speak of this that you have seen,
Swear by my sword.

Ghost.
[Beneath.] Swear.

Ham.
Hic et ubique? then we'll shift our ground.--
Come hither, gentlemen,
And lay your hands again upon my sword:
Never to speak of this that you have heard,
Swear by my sword.

Ghost.
[Beneath.] Swear.

Ham.
Well said, old mole! canst work i' the earth so fast?
A worthy pioner!--Once more remove, good friends.

Hor.
O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!

Ham.
And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
But come;--
Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself,--
As I, perchance, hereafter shall think meet
To put an antic disposition on,--
That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
With arms encumber'd thus, or this head-shake,
Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
As 'Well, well, we know'; or 'We could, an if we would';--
Or 'If we list to speak'; or 'There be, an if they might';--
Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
That you know aught of me:--this is not to do,
So grace and mercy at your most need help you,
Swear.

Ghost.
[Beneath.] Swear.

Ham.
Rest, rest, perturbed spirit!--So, gentlemen,
With all my love I do commend me to you:
And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
May do, to express his love and friending to you,
God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together;
And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
The time is out of joint:--O cursed spite,
That ever I was born to set it right!--
Nay, come, let's go together.

[Exeunt.]



Act II.

Scene I. A room in Polonius's house.

[Enter Polonius and Reynaldo.]

Pol.
Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.

Rey.
I will, my lord.

Pol.
You shall do marvellous wisely, good Reynaldo,
Before You visit him, to make inquiry
Of his behaviour.

Rey.
My lord, I did intend it.

Pol.
Marry, well said; very well said. Look you, sir,
Enquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
And how, and who, what means, and where they keep,
What company, at what expense; and finding,
By this encompassment and drift of question,
That they do know my son, come you more nearer
Than your particular demands will touch it:
Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him;
As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
And in part hi;m;--do you mark this, Reynaldo?

Rey.
Ay, very well, my lord.

Pol.
'And in part him;--but,' you may say, 'not well:
But if't be he I mean, he's very wild;
Addicted so and so;' and there put on him
What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
As may dishonour him; take heed of that;
But, sir, such wanton, wild, and usual slips
As are companions noted and most known
To youth and liberty.

Rey.
As gaming, my lord.

Pol.
Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
Drabbing:--you may go so far.

Rey.
My lord, that would dishonour him.

Pol.
Faith, no; as you may season it in the charge.
You must not put another scandal on him,
That he is open to incontinency;
That's not my meaning: but breathe his faults so quaintly
That they may seem the taints of liberty;
The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind;
A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
Of general assault.

Rey.
But, my good lord,--

Pol.
Wherefore should you do this?

Rey.
Ay, my lord,
I would know that.

Pol.
Marry, sir, here's my drift;
And I believe it is a fetch of warrant:
You laying these slight sullies on my son
As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' the working,
Mark you,
Your party in converse, him you would sound,
Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
The youth you breathe of guilty, be assur'd
He closes with you in this consequence;
'Good sir,' or so; or 'friend,' or 'gentleman'--
According to the phrase or the addition
Of man and country.

Rey.
Very good, my lord.

Pol.
And then, sir, does he this,--he does--What was I about to say?--
By the mass, I was about to say something:--Where did I leave?

Rey.
At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,' and
gentleman.'

Pol.
At--closes in the consequence'--ay, marry!
He closes with you thus:--'I know the gentleman;
I saw him yesterday, or t'other day,
Or then, or then; with such, or such; and, as you say,
There was he gaming; there o'ertook in's rouse;
There falling out at tennis': or perchance,
'I saw him enter such a house of sale,'--
Videlicet, a brothel,--or so forth.--
See you now;
Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth:
And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
With windlaces, and with assays of bias,
By indirections find directions out:
So, by my former lecture and advice,
Shall you my son. You have me, have you not?

Rey.
My lord, I have.

Pol.
God b' wi' you, fare you well.

Rey.
Good my lord!

Pol.
Observe his inclination in yourself.

Rey.
I shall, my lord.

Pol.
And let him ply his music.

Rey.
Well, my lord.

Pol.
Farewell!

[Exit Reynaldo.]

[Enter Ophelia.]

How now, Ophelia! what's the matter?

Oph.
Alas, my lord, I have been so affrighted!

Pol.
With what, i' the name of God?

Oph.
My lord, as I was sewing in my chamber,
Lord Hamlet,--with his doublet all unbrac'd;
No hat upon his head; his stockings foul'd,
Ungart'red, and down-gyved to his ankle;
Pale as his shirt; his knees knocking each other;
And with a look so piteous in purport
As if he had been loosed out of hell
To speak of horrors,--he comes before me.

Pol.
Mad for thy love?

Oph.
My lord, I do not know;
But truly I do fear it.

Pol.
What said he?

Oph.
He took me by the wrist, and held me hard;
Then goes he to the length of all his arm;
And with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
He falls to such perusal of my face
As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so;
At last,--a little shaking of mine arm,
And thrice his head thus waving up and down,--
He rais'd a sigh so piteous and profound
As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
And end his being: that done, he lets me go:
And, with his head over his shoulder turn'd
He seem'd to find his way without his eyes;
For out o' doors he went without their help,
And to the last bended their light on me.

Pol.
Come, go with me: I will go seek the king.
This is the very ecstasy of love;
Whose violent property fordoes itself,
And leads the will to desperate undertakings,
As oft as any passion under heaven
That does afflict our natures. I am sorry,--
What, have you given him any hard words of late?

Oph.
No, my good lord; but, as you did command,
I did repel his letters and denied
His access to me.

Pol.
That hath made him mad.
I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
I had not quoted him: I fear'd he did but trifle,
And meant to wreck thee; but beshrew my jealousy!
It seems it as proper to our age
To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
As it is common for the younger sort
To lack discretion. Come, go we to the king:
This must be known; which, being kept close, might move
More grief to hide than hate to utter love.

[Exeunt.]



Scene II. A room in the Castle.

[Enter King, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and Attendants.]

King.
Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern!
Moreover that we much did long to see you,
The need we have to use you did provoke
Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
Of Hamlet's transformation; so I call it,
Since nor the exterior nor the inward man
Resembles that it was. What it should be,
More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
So much from the understanding of himself,
I cannot dream of: I entreat you both
That, being of so young days brought up with him,
And since so neighbour'd to his youth and humour,
That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
Some little time: so by your companies
To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather,
So much as from occasion you may glean,
Whether aught, to us unknown, afflicts him thus,
That, open'd, lies within our remedy.

Queen.
Good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you,
And sure I am two men there are not living
To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
To show us so much gentry and good-will
As to expend your time with us awhile,
For the supply and profit of our hope,
Your visitation shall receive such thanks
As fits a king's remembrance.

Ros.
Both your majesties
Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
Put your dread pleasures more into command
Than to entreaty.

Guil.
We both obey,
And here give up ourselves, in the full bent,
To lay our service freely at your feet,
To be commanded.

King.
Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.

Queen.
Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz:
And I beseech you instantly to visit
My too-much-changed son.--Go, some of you,
And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.

Guil.
Heavens make our presence and our practices
Pleasant and helpful to him!

Queen.
Ay, amen!

[Exeunt Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and some Attendants].

[Enter Polonius.]

Pol.
Th' ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
Are joyfully return'd.

King.
Thou still hast been the father of good news.

Pol.
Have I, my lord? Assure you, my good liege,
I hold my duty, as I hold my soul,
Both to my God and to my gracious king:
And I do think,--or else this brain of mine
Hunts not the trail of policy so sure
As it hath us'd to do,--that I have found
The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.

King.
O, speak of that; that do I long to hear.

Pol.
Give first admittance to the ambassadors;
My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.

King.
Thyself do grace to them, and bring them in.

[Exit Polonius.]

He tells me, my sweet queen, he hath found
The head and source of all your son's distemper.

Queen.
I doubt it is no other but the main,--
His father's death and our o'erhasty marriage.

King.
Well, we shall sift him.

[Enter Polonius, with Voltimand and Cornelius.]

Welcome, my good friends!
Say, Voltimand, what from our brother Norway?

Volt.
Most fair return of greetings and desires.
Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack;
But, better look'd into, he truly found
It was against your highness; whereat griev'd,--
That so his sickness, age, and impotence
Was falsely borne in hand,--sends out arrests
On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys;
Receives rebuke from Norway; and, in fine,
Makes vow before his uncle never more
To give th' assay of arms against your majesty.
Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee;
And his commission to employ those soldiers,
So levied as before, against the Polack:
With an entreaty, herein further shown,
[Gives a paper.]
That it might please you to give quiet pass
Through your dominions for this enterprise,
On such regards of safety and allowance
As therein are set down.

King.
It likes us well;
And at our more consider'd time we'll read,
Answer, and think upon this business.
Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour:
Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together:
Most welcome home!

[Exeunt Voltimand and Cornelius.]

Pol.
This business is well ended.--
My liege, and madam,--to expostulate
What majesty should be, what duty is,
Why day is day, night is night, and time is time.
Were nothing but to waste night, day, and time.
Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
I will be brief:--your noble son is mad:
Mad call I it; for to define true madness,
What is't but to be nothing else but mad?
But let that go.

Queen.
More matter, with less art.

Pol.
Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
And pity 'tis 'tis true: a foolish figure;
But farewell it, for I will use no art.
Mad let us grant him then: and now remains
That we find out the cause of this effect;
Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
For this effect defective comes by cause:
Thus it remains, and the remainder thus.
Perpend.
I have a daughter,--have whilst she is mine,--
Who, in her duty and obedience, mark,
Hath given me this: now gather, and surmise.
[Reads.]
'To the celestial, and my soul's idol, the most beautified
Ophelia,'--
That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is a vile
phrase: but you shall hear. Thus:
[Reads.]
'In her excellent white bosom, these, &c.'

Queen.
Came this from Hamlet to her?

Pol.
Good madam, stay awhile; I will be faithful.
[Reads.]
  'Doubt thou the stars are fire;
     Doubt that the sun doth move;
   Doubt truth to be a liar;
     But never doubt I love.
'O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers; I have not art to
reckon my groans: but that I love thee best, O most best, believe
it. Adieu.
  'Thine evermore, most dear lady, whilst this machine is to him,
     HAMLET.'
This, in obedience, hath my daughter show'd me;
And more above, hath his solicitings,
As they fell out by time, by means, and place,
All given to mine ear.

King.
But how hath she
Receiv'd his love?

Pol.
What do you think of me?

King.
As of a man faithful and honourable.

Pol.
I would fain prove so. But what might you think,
When I had seen this hot love on the wing,--
As I perceiv'd it, I must tell you that,
Before my daughter told me,-- what might you,
Or my dear majesty your queen here, think,
If I had play'd the desk or table-book,
Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb;
Or look'd upon this love with idle sight;--
What might you think? No, I went round to work,
And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
'Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy sphere;
This must not be:' and then I precepts gave her,
That she should lock herself from his resort,
Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
Which done, she took the fruits of my advice;
And he, repulsed,--a short tale to make,--
Fell into a sadness; then into a fast;
Thence to a watch; thence into a weakness;
Thence to a lightness; and, by this declension,
Into the madness wherein now he raves,
And all we wail for.

King.
Do you think 'tis this?

Queen.
It may be, very likely.

Pol.
Hath there been such a time,--I'd fain know that--
That I have positively said ''Tis so,'
When it prov'd otherwise?

King.
Not that I know.

Pol.
Take this from this, if this be otherwise:
[Points to his head and shoulder.]
If circumstances lead me, I will find
Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
Within the centre.

King.
How may we try it further?

Pol.
You know sometimes he walks for hours together
Here in the lobby.

Queen.
So he does indeed.

Pol.
At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him:
Be you and I behind an arras then;
Mark the encounter: if he love her not,
And he not from his reason fall'n thereon
Let me be no assistant for a state,
But keep a farm and carters.

King.
We will try it.

Queen.
But look where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.

Pol.
Away, I do beseech you, both away
I'll board him presently:--O, give me leave.

[Exeunt King, Queen, and Attendants.]

[Enter Hamlet, reading.]

How does my good Lord Hamlet?

Ham.
Well, God-a-mercy.

Pol.
Do you know me, my lord?

Ham.
Excellent well; you're a fishmonger.

Pol.
Not I, my lord.

Ham.
Then I would you were so honest a man.

Pol.
Honest, my lord!

Ham.
Ay, sir; to be honest, as this world goes, is to be one man
picked out of ten thousand.

Pol.
That's very true, my lord.

Ham.
For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a god-kissing
carrion,--Have you a daughter?

Pol.
I have, my lord.

Ham.
Let her not walk i' the sun: conception is a blessing, but not
as your daughter may conceive:--friend, look to't.

Pol.
How say you by that?--[Aside.] Still harping on my daughter:--yet
he knew me not at first; he said I was a fishmonger: he is far
gone, far gone: and truly in my youth I suffered much extremity
for love; very near this. I'll speak to him again.--What do you
read, my lord?

Ham.
Words, words, words.

Pol.
What is the matter, my lord?

Ham.
Between who?

Pol.
I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.

Ham.
Slanders, sir: for the satirical slave says here that old men
have grey beards; that their faces are wrinkled; their eyes
purging thick amber and plum-tree gum; and that they have a
plentiful lack of wit, together with most weak hams: all which,
sir, though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet I hold it
not honesty to have it thus set down; for you yourself, sir,
should be old as I am, if, like a crab, you could go backward.

Pol.
[Aside.] Though this be madness, yet there is a method in't.--
Will you walk out of the air, my lord?

Ham.
Into my grave?

Pol.
Indeed, that is out o' the air. [Aside.] How pregnant sometimes
his replies are! a happiness that often madness hits on, which
reason and sanity could not so prosperously be delivered of. I
will leave him and suddenly contrive the means of meeting between
him and my daughter.--My honourable lord, I will most humbly take
my leave of you.

Ham.
You cannot, sir, take from me anything that I will more
willingly part withal,--except my life, except my life, except my
life.

Pol.
Fare you well, my lord.

Ham.
These tedious old fools!

[Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.]

Pol.
You go to seek the Lord Hamlet; there he is.

Ros.
[To Polonius.] God save you, sir!

[Exit Polonius.]

Guil.
My honoured lord!

Ros.
My most dear lord!

Ham.
My excellent good friends! How dost thou, Guildenstern? Ah,
Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?

Ros.
As the indifferent children of the earth.

Guil.
Happy in that we are not over-happy;
On fortune's cap we are not the very button.

Ham.
Nor the soles of her shoe?

Ros.
Neither, my lord.

Ham.
Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of her
favours?

Guil.
Faith, her privates we.

Ham.
In the secret parts of fortune? O, most true; she is a
strumpet. What's the news?

Ros.
None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.

Ham.
Then is doomsday near; but your news is not true. Let me
question more in particular: what have you, my good friends,
deserved at the hands of fortune, that she sends you to prison
hither?

Guil.
Prison, my lord!

Ham.
Denmark's a prison.

Ros.
Then is the world one.

Ham.
A goodly one; in which there are many confines, wards, and
dungeons, Denmark being one o' the worst.

Ros.
We think not so, my lord.

Ham.
Why, then 'tis none to you; for there is nothing either good
or bad but thinking makes it so: to me it is a prison.

Ros.
Why, then, your ambition makes it one; 'tis too narrow for your
mind.

Ham.
O God, I could be bounded in a nutshell, and count myself a
king of infinite space, were it not that I have bad dreams.

Guil.
Which dreams, indeed, are ambition; for the very substance of
the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.

Ham.
A dream itself is but a shadow.

Ros.
Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that
it is but a shadow's shadow.

Ham.
Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and outstretch'd
heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we to the court? for, by my
fay, I cannot reason.

Ros. and Guild.
We'll wait upon you.

Ham.
No such matter: I will not sort you with the rest of my
servants; for, to speak to you like an honest man, I am most
dreadfully attended. But, in the beaten way of friendship, what
make you at Elsinore?

Ros.
To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.

Ham.
Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I thank you:
and sure, dear friends, my thanks are too dear a halfpenny. Were
you not sent for? Is it your own inclining? Is it a free
visitation? Come, deal justly with me: come, come; nay, speak.

Guil.
What should we say, my lord?

Ham.
Why, anything--but to the purpose. You were sent for; and
there is a kind of confession in your looks, which your modesties
have not craft enough to colour: I know the good king and queen
have sent for you.

Ros.
To what end, my lord?

Ham.
That you must teach me. But let me conjure you, by the rights
of our fellowship, by the consonancy of our youth, by the
obligation of our ever-preserved love, and by what more dear a
better proposer could charge you withal, be even and direct with
me, whether you were sent for or no.

Ros.
[To Guildenstern.] What say you?

Ham.
[Aside.] Nay, then, I have an eye of you.--If you love me, hold
not off.

Guil.
My lord, we were sent for.

Ham.
I will tell you why; so shall my anticipation prevent your
discovery, and your secrecy to the king and queen moult no
feather. I have of late,--but wherefore I know not,--lost all my
mirth, forgone all custom of exercises; and indeed, it goes so
heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame, the earth,
seems to me a sterile promontory; this most excellent canopy, the
air, look you, this brave o'erhanging firmament, this majestical
roof fretted with golden fire,--why, it appears no other thing
to me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours. What a
piece of work is man! How noble in reason! how infinite in
faculties! in form and moving, how express and admirable! in
action how like an angel! in apprehension, how like a god! the
beauty of the world! the paragon of animals! And yet, to me, what
is this quintessence of dust? Man delights not me; no, nor woman
neither, though by your smiling you seem to say so.

Ros.
My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.

Ham.
Why did you laugh then, when I said 'Man delights not me'?

Ros.
To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what lenten
entertainment the players shall receive from you: we coted them
on the way; and hither are they coming to offer you service.

Ham.
He that plays the king shall be welcome,--his majesty shall
have tribute of me; the adventurous knight shall use his foil and
target; the lover shall not sigh gratis; the humorous man shall
end his part in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
lungs are tickle o' the sere; and the lady shall say her mind
freely, or the blank verse shall halt for't. What players are
they?

Ros.
Even those you were wont to take such delight in,--the
tragedians of the city.

Ham.
How chances it they travel? their residence, both in
reputation and profit, was better both ways.

Ros.
I think their inhibition comes by the means of the late
innovation.

Ham.
Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was in the
city? Are they so followed?

Ros.
No, indeed, are they not.

Ham.
How comes it? do they grow rusty?

Ros.
Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace: but there is,
sir, an aery of children, little eyases, that cry out on the top
of question, and are most tyrannically clapped for't: these are
now the fashion; and so berattle the common stages,--so they call
them,--that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goose-quills and
dare scarce come thither.

Ham.
What, are they children? who maintains 'em? How are they
escoted? Will they pursue the quality no longer than they can
sing? will they not say afterwards, if they should grow
themselves to common players,--as it is most like, if their means
are no better,--their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim
against their own succession?

Ros.
Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and the nation
holds it no sin to tarre them to controversy: there was, for
awhile, no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player
went to cuffs in the question.

Ham.
Is't possible?

Guil.
O, there has been much throwing about of brains.

Ham.
Do the boys carry it away?

Ros.
Ay, that they do, my lord; Hercules and his load too.

Ham.
It is not very strange; for my uncle is king of Denmark, and
those that would make mouths at him while my father lived, give
twenty, forty, fifty, a hundred ducats a-piece for his picture in
little. 'Sblood, there is something in this more than natural, if
philosophy could find it out.

[Flourish of trumpets within.]

Guil.
There are the players.

Ham.
Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands, come: the
appurtenance of welcome is fashion and ceremony: let me comply
with you in this garb; lest my extent to the players, which I
tell you must show fairly outward, should more appear like
entertainment than yours. You are welcome: but my uncle-father
and aunt-mother are deceived.

Guil.
In what, my dear lord?

Ham.
I am but mad north-north-west: when the wind is southerly I
know a hawk from a handsaw.

[Enter Polonius.]

Pol.
Well be with you, gentlemen!

Ham.
Hark you, Guildenstern;--and you too;--at each ear a hearer: that
great baby you see there is not yet out of his swaddling clouts.

Ros.
Happily he's the second time come to them; for they say an old
man is twice a child.

Ham.
I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players; mark it.--You
say right, sir: o' Monday morning; 'twas so indeed.

Pol.
My lord, I have news to tell you.

Ham.
My lord, I have news to tell you. When Roscius was an actor in
Rome,--

Pol.
The actors are come hither, my lord.

Ham.
Buzz, buzz!

Pol.
Upon my honour,--

Ham.
Then came each actor on his ass,--

Pol.
The best actors in the world, either for tragedy, comedy,
history, pastoral, pastoral-comical, historical-pastoral,
tragical-historical, tragical-comical-historical-pastoral, scene
individable, or poem unlimited: Seneca cannot be too heavy nor
Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the liberty, these are
the only men.

Ham.
O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!

Pol.
What treasure had he, my lord?

Ham.
Why--
   'One fair daughter, and no more,
   The which he loved passing well.'


Pol.
[Aside.] Still on my daughter.

Ham.
Am I not i' the right, old Jephthah?

Pol.
If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter that I
love passing well.

Ham.
Nay, that follows not.

Pol.
What follows, then, my lord?

Ham.
Why--
   'As by lot, God wot,'
and then, you know,
   'It came to pass, as most like it was--'
The first row of the pious chanson will show you more; for look
where my abridgment comes.

[Enter four or five Players.]

You are welcome, masters; welcome, all:--I am glad to see thee
well.--welcome, good friends.--O, my old friend! Thy face is
valanc'd since I saw thee last; comest thou to beard me in
Denmark?--What, my young lady and mistress! By'r lady, your
ladyship is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last, by the
altitude of a chopine. Pray God, your voice, like a piece of
uncurrent gold, be not cracked within the ring.--Masters, you are
all welcome. We'll e'en to't like French falconers, fly at
anything we see: we'll have a speech straight: come, give us a
taste of your quality: come, a passionate speech.

I Play.
What speech, my lord?

Ham.
I heard thee speak me a speech once,--but it was never acted;
or if it was, not above once; for the play, I remember, pleased
not the million, 'twas caviare to the general; but it was,--as I
received it, and others, whose judgments in such matters cried in
the top of mine,--an excellent play, well digested in the scenes,
set down with as much modesty as cunning. I remember, one said
there were no sallets in the lines to make the matter savoury,
nor no matter in the phrase that might indite the author of
affectation; but called it an honest method, as wholesome as
sweet, and by very much more handsome than fine. One speech in it
I chiefly loved: 'twas AEneas' tale to Dido, and thereabout of it
especially where he speaks of Priam's slaughter: if it live in
your memory, begin at this line;--let me see, let me see:--
  
The rugged Pyrrhus, like th' Hyrcanian beast,--

it is not so:-- it begins with Pyrrhus:--

  'The rugged Pyrrhus,--he whose sable arms,
   Black as his purpose,did the night resemble
   When he lay couched in the ominous horse,--
   Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd
   With heraldry more dismal; head to foot
   Now is be total gules; horridly trick'd
   With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
   Bak'd and impasted with the parching streets,
   That lend a tyrannous and a damned light
   To their vile murders: roasted in wrath and fire,
   And thus o'ersized with coagulate gore,
   With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
   Old grandsire Priam seeks.'

So, proceed you.

Pol.
'Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and good
discretion.

I Play.
   Anon he finds him,
   Striking too short at Greeks: his antique sword,
   Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
   Repugnant to command: unequal match'd,
   Pyrrhus at Priam drives; in rage strikes wide;
   But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword
   The unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
   Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
   Stoops to his base; and with a hideous crash
   Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear: for lo! his sword,
   Which was declining on the milky head
   Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' the air to stick:
   So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood;
   And, like a neutral to his will and matter,
   Did nothing.
   But as we often see, against some storm,
   A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
   The bold winds speechless, and the orb below
   As hush as death, anon the dreadful thunder
   Doth rend the region; so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
   A roused vengeance sets him new a-work;
   And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
   On Mars's armour, forg'd for proof eterne,
   With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
   Now falls on Priam.--
   Out, out, thou strumpet, Fortune! All you gods,
   In general synod, take away her power;
   Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
   And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,
   As low as to the fiends!

Pol.
This is too long.

Ham.
It shall to the barber's, with your beard.--Pr'ythee say on.--
He's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he sleeps:--say on; come
to Hecuba.

I Play.
   But who, O who, had seen the mobled queen,--

Ham.
'The mobled queen'?

Pol.
That's good! 'Mobled queen' is good.

I Play.
   Run barefoot up and down, threatening the flames
   With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head
   Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
   About her lank and all o'erteemed loins,
   A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up;--
   Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd,
   'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have pronounc'd:
   But if the gods themselves did see her then,
   When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
   In mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
   The instant burst of clamour that she made,--
   Unless things mortal move them not at all,--
   Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven,
   And passion in the gods.

Pol.
Look, whether he has not turn'd his colour, and has tears in's
eyes.--Pray you, no more!

Ham.
'Tis well. I'll have thee speak out the rest of this soon.--
Good my lord, will you see the players well bestowed? Do you
hear? Let them be well used; for they are the abstracts and brief
chronicles of the time; after your death you were better have a
bad epitaph than their ill report while you live.

Pol.
My lord, I will use them according to their desert.

Ham.
Odd's bodikin, man, better: use every man after his
desert, and who should scape whipping? Use them after your own
honour and dignity: the less they deserve, the more merit is in
your bounty. Take them in.

Pol.
Come, sirs.

Ham.
Follow him, friends. we'll hear a play to-morrow.

[Exeunt Polonius with all the Players but the First.]

Dost thou hear me, old friend? Can you play 'The Murder of
Gonzago'?

I Play.
Ay, my lord.

Ham.
We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need, study a
speech of some dozen or sixteen lines which I would set down and
insert in't? could you not?

I Play.
Ay, my lord.

Ham.
Very well.--Follow that lord; and look you mock him not.

[Exit First Player.]

--My good friends [to Ros. and Guild.], I'll leave you till
night: you are welcome to Elsinore.

Ros.
Good my lord!

[Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.]

Ham.
Ay, so, God b' wi' ye!
Now I am alone.
O, what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
Is it not monstrous that this player here,
But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
Could force his soul so to his own conceit
That from her working all his visage wan'd;
Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
With forms to his conceit? And all for nothing!
For Hecuba?
What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
That he should weep for her? What would he do,
Had he the motive and the cue for passion
That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
And cleave the general ear with horrid speech;
Make mad the guilty, and appal the free;
Confound the ignorant, and amaze, indeed,
The very faculties of eyes and ears.
Yet I,
A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak,
Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,
And can say nothing; no, not for a king
Upon whose property and most dear life
A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?
Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
Plucks off my beard and blows it in my face?
Tweaks me by the nose? gives me the lie i' the throat
As deep as to the lungs? who does me this, ha?
'Swounds, I should take it: for it cannot be
But I am pigeon-liver'd, and lack gall
To make oppression bitter; or ere this
I should have fatted all the region kites
With this slave's offal: bloody, bawdy villain!
Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
O, vengeance!
Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
That I, the son of a dear father murder'd,
Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
Must, like a whore, unpack my heart with words
And fall a-cursing like a very drab,
A scullion!
Fie upon't! foh!--About, my brain! I have heard
That guilty creatures, sitting at a play,
Have by the very cunning of the scene
Been struck so to the soul that presently
They have proclaim'd their malefactions;
For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak
With most miraculous organ, I'll have these players
Play something like the murder of my father
Before mine uncle: I'll observe his looks;
I'll tent him to the quick: if he but blench,
I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
May be the devil: and the devil hath power
To assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
Out of my weakness and my melancholy,--
As he is very potent with such spirits,--
Abuses me to damn me: I'll have grounds
More relative than this.--the play's the thing
Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king.

[Exit.]




ACT III.

Scene I. A room in the Castle.

[Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz, and
Guildenstern.]

King.
And can you, by no drift of circumstance,
Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?

Ros.
He does confess he feels himself distracted,
But from what cause he will by no means speak.

Guil.
Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
But, with a crafty madness, keeps aloof
When we would bring him on to some confession
Of his true state.

Queen.
Did he receive you well?

Ros.
Most like a gentleman.

Guil.
But with much forcing of his disposition.

Ros.
Niggard of question; but, of our demands,
Most free in his reply.

Queen.
Did you assay him
To any pastime?

Ros.
Madam, it so fell out that certain players
We o'er-raught on the way: of these we told him,
And there did seem in him a kind of joy
To hear of it: they are about the court,
And, as I think, they have already order
This night to play before him.

Pol.
'Tis most true;
And he beseech'd me to entreat your majesties
To hear and see the matter.

King.
With all my heart; and it doth much content me
To hear him so inclin'd.--
Good gentlemen, give him a further edge,
And drive his purpose on to these delights.

Ros.
We shall, my lord.

[Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.]

King.
Sweet Gertrude, leave us too;
For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
Affront Ophelia:
Her father and myself,--lawful espials,--
Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing, unseen,
We may of their encounter frankly judge;
And gather by him, as he is behav'd,
If't be the affliction of his love or no
That thus he suffers for.

Queen.
I shall obey you:--
And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
That your good beauties be the happy cause
Of Hamlet's wildness: so shall I hope your virtues
Will bring him to his wonted way again,
To both your honours.

Oph.
Madam, I wish it may.

[Exit Queen.]

Pol.
Ophelia, walk you here.--Gracious, so please you,
We will bestow ourselves.--[To Ophelia.] Read on this book;
That show of such an exercise may colour
Your loneliness.--We are oft to blame in this,--
'Tis too much prov'd,--that with devotion's visage
And pious action we do sugar o'er
The Devil himself.

King.
[Aside.] O, 'tis too true!
How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
The harlot's cheek, beautied with plastering art,
Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
Than is my deed to my most painted word:
O heavy burden!

Pol.
I hear him coming: let's withdraw, my lord.

[Exeunt King and Polonius.]

[Enter Hamlet.]

Ham.
To be, or not to be,--that is the question:--
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
And by opposing end them?--To die,--to sleep,--
No more; and by a sleep to say we end
The heartache, and the thousand natural shocks
That flesh is heir to,--'tis a consummation
Devoutly to be wish'd. To die,--to sleep;--
To sleep! perchance to dream:--ay, there's the rub;
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come,
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
Must give us pause: there's the respect
That makes calamity of so long life;
For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
The pangs of despis'd love, the law's delay,
The insolence of office, and the spurns
That patient merit of the unworthy takes,
When he himself might his quietus make
With a bare bodkin? who would these fardels bear,
To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
But that the dread of something after death,--
The undiscover'd country, from whose bourn
No traveller returns,--puzzles the will,
And makes us rather bear those ills we have
Than fly to others that we know not of?
Thus conscience does make cowards of us all;
And thus the native hue of resolution
Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought;
And enterprises of great pith and moment,
With this regard, their currents turn awry,
And lose the name of action.--Soft you now!
The fair Ophelia!--Nymph, in thy orisons
Be all my sins remember'd.

Oph.
Good my lord,
How does your honour for this many a day?

Ham.
I humbly thank you; well, well, well.

Oph.
My lord, I have remembrances of yours
That I have longed long to re-deliver.
I pray you, now receive them.

Ham.
No, not I;
I never gave you aught.

Oph.
My honour'd lord, you know right well you did;
And with them words of so sweet breath compos'd
As made the things more rich; their perfume lost,
Take these again; for to the noble mind
Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.
There, my lord.

Ham.
Ha, ha! are you honest?

Oph.
My lord?

Ham.
Are you fair?

Oph.
What means your lordship?

Ham.
That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should admit no
discourse to your beauty.

Oph.
Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than with honesty?

Ham.
Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner transform
honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can
translate beauty into his likeness: this was sometime a paradox,
but now the time gives it proof. I did love you once.

Oph.
Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.

Ham.
You should not have believ'd me; for virtue cannot so
inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of it: I loved you
not.

Oph.
I was the more deceived.

Ham.
Get thee to a nunnery: why wouldst thou be a breeder of
sinners? I am myself indifferent honest; but yet I could accuse
me of such things that it were better my mother had not borne me:
I am very proud, revengeful, ambitious; with more offences at my
beck than I have thoughts to put them in, imagination to give
them shape, or time to act them in. What should such fellows as I
do crawling between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves, all;
believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery. Where's your
father?

Oph.
At home, my lord.

Ham.
Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the fool
nowhere but in's own house. Farewell.

Oph.
O, help him, you sweet heavens!

Ham.
If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for thy dowry,--
be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape
calumny. Get thee to a nunnery, go: farewell. Or, if thou wilt
needs marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough what
monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go; and quickly too.
Farewell.

Oph.
O heavenly powers, restore him!

Ham.
I have heard of your paintings too, well enough; God hath
given you one face, and you make yourselves another: you jig, you
amble, and you lisp, and nickname God's creatures, and make your
wantonness your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't; it hath made
me mad. I say, we will have no more marriages: those that are
married already, all but one, shall live; the rest shall keep as
they are. To a nunnery, go.

[Exit.]

Oph.
O, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!
The courtier's, scholar's, soldier's, eye, tongue, sword,
The expectancy and rose of the fair state,
The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
The observ'd of all observers,--quite, quite down!
And I, of ladies most deject and wretched
That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth
Blasted with ecstasy: O, woe is me,
To have seen what I have seen, see what I see!

[Re-enter King and Polonius.]

King.
Love! his affections do not that way tend;
Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little,
Was not like madness. There's something in his soul
O'er which his melancholy sits on brood;
And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
Will be some danger: which for to prevent,
I have in quick determination
Thus set it down:--he shall with speed to England
For the demand of our neglected tribute:
Haply the seas, and countries different,
With variable objects, shall expel
This something-settled matter in his heart;
Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
From fashion of himself. What think you on't?

Pol.
It shall do well: but yet do I believe
The origin and commencement of his grief
Sprung from neglected love.--How now, Ophelia!
You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said;
We heard it all.--My lord, do as you please;
But if you hold it fit, after the play,
Let his queen mother all alone entreat him
To show his grief: let her be round with him;
And I'll be plac'd, so please you, in the ear
Of all their conference. If she find him not,
To England send him; or confine him where
Your wisdom best shall think.

King.
It shall be so:
Madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go.

[Exeunt.]



Scene II. A hall in the Castle.

[Enter Hamlet and cartain Players.]

Ham.
Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounced it to you,
trippingly on the tongue: but if you mouth it, as many of your
players do, I had as lief the town crier spoke my lines. Nor do
not saw the air too much with your hand, thus, but use all
gently: for in the very torrent, tempest, and, as I may say,
whirlwind of passion, you must acquire and beget a
temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it offends me to the
soul, to hear a robustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to
tatters, to very rags, to split the cars of the groundlings, who,
for the most part, are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb
shows and noise: I would have such a fellow whipped for o'erdoing
Termagant; it out-herods Herod: pray you avoid it.

I Player.
I warrant your honour.

Ham.
Be not too tame neither; but let your own discretion be your
tutor: suit the action to the word, the word to the action; with
this special observance, that you o'erstep not the modesty of
nature: for anything so overdone is from the purpose of playing,
whose end, both at the first and now, was and is, to hold, as
'twere, the mirror up to nature; to show virtue her own image,
scorn her own image, and the very age and body of the time his
form and pressure. Now, this overdone, or come tardy off, though
it make the unskilful laugh, cannot but make the judicious
grieve; the censure of the which one must in your allowance,
o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be players that I
have seen play,--and heard others praise, and that highly,--not
to speak it profanely, that, neither having the accent of
Christians, nor the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of nature's
journeymen had made men, and not made them well, they imitated
humanity so abominably.

I Player.
I hope we have reform'd that indifferently with us, sir.

Ham.
O, reform it altogether. And let those that play your clowns
speak no more than is set down for them: for there be of them
that will themselves laugh, to set on some quantity of barren
spectators to laugh too, though in the meantime some necessary
question of the play be then to be considered: that's villanous
and shows a most pitiful ambition in the fool that uses it. Go
make you ready.

[Exeunt Players.]

[Enter Polonius, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.]

How now, my lord! will the king hear this piece of work?

Pol.
And the queen too, and that presently.

Ham.
Bid the players make haste.

[Exit Polonius.]

Will you two help to hasten them?

Ros. and Guil.
We will, my lord.

[Exeunt Ros. and Guil.]

Ham.
What, ho, Horatio!

[Enter Horatio.]

Hor.
Here, sweet lord, at your service.

Ham.
Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
As e'er my conversation cop'd withal.

Hor.
O, my dear lord,--

Ham.
Nay, do not think I flatter;
For what advancement may I hope from thee,
That no revenue hast, but thy good spirits,
To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter'd?
No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp;
And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice,
And could of men distinguish, her election
Hath seal'd thee for herself: for thou hast been
As one, in suffering all, that suffers nothing;
A man that Fortune's buffets and rewards
Hast ta'en with equal thanks: and bles'd are those
Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled
That they are not a pipe for Fortune's finger
To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
As I do thee.--Something too much of this.--
There is a play to-night before the king;
One scene of it comes near the circumstance,
Which I have told thee, of my father's death:
I pr'ythee, when thou see'st that act a-foot,
Even with the very comment of thy soul
Observe mine uncle: if his occulted guilt
Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
It is a damned ghost that we have seen;
And my imaginations are as foul
As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;
For I mine eyes will rivet to his face;
And, after, we will both our judgments join
In censure of his seeming.

Hor.
Well, my lord:
If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
And scape detecting, I will pay the theft.

Ham.
They are coming to the play. I must be idle:
Get you a place.

[Danish march. A flourish. Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia,
Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and others.]

King.
How fares our cousin Hamlet?

Ham.
Excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish: I eat the air,
promise-crammed: you cannot feed capons so.

King.
I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet; these words are not
mine.

Ham.
No, nor mine now. My lord, you play'd once i' the university, you
say? [To Polonius.]

Pol.
That did I, my lord, and was accounted a good actor.

Ham.
What did you enact?

Pol.
I did enact Julius Caesar; I was kill'd i' the Capitol; Brutus
killed me.

Ham.
It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf there.--Be
the players ready?

Ros.
Ay, my lord; they stay upon your patience.

Queen.
Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.

Ham.
No, good mother, here's metal more attractive.

Pol.
O, ho! do you mark that? [To the King.]

Ham.
Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
[Lying down at Ophelia's feet.]

Oph.
No, my lord.

Ham.
I mean, my head upon your lap?

Oph.
Ay, my lord.

Ham.
Do you think I meant country matters?

Oph.
I think nothing, my lord.

Ham.
That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.

Oph.
What is, my lord?

Ham.
Nothing.

Oph.
You are merry, my lord.

Ham.
Who, I?

Oph.
Ay, my lord.

Ham.
O, your only jig-maker! What should a man do but be merry?
for look you how cheerfully my mother looks, and my father died
within 's two hours.

Oph.
Nay, 'tis twice two months, my lord.

Ham.
So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, for I'll have a
suit of sables. O heavens! die two months ago, and not forgotten
yet? Then there's hope a great man's memory may outlive his life
half a year: but, by'r lady, he must build churches then; or else
shall he suffer not thinking on, with the hobby-horse, whose
epitaph is 'For, O, for, O, the hobby-horse is forgot!'

[Trumpets sound. The dumb show enters.]

[Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; the Queen embracing
him and he her. She kneels, and makes show of protestation
unto him. He takes her up, and declines his head upon her
neck: lays him down upon a bank of flowers: she, seeing
him asleep, leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his
crown, kisses it, pours poison in the king's ears, and exit. The
Queen returns, finds the King dead, and makes passionate action.
The Poisoner with some three or four Mutes, comes in again,
seeming to lament with her. The dead body is carried away. The
Poisoner wooes the Queen with gifts; she seems loth and unwilling
awhile, but in the end accepts his love.]

[Exeunt.]

Oph.
What means this, my lord?

Ham.
Marry, this is miching mallecho; it means mischief.

Oph.
Belike this show imports the argument of the play.

[Enter Prologue.]

Ham.
We shall know by this fellow: the players cannot keep counsel;
they'll tell all.

Oph.
Will he tell us what this show meant?

Ham.
Ay, or any show that you'll show him: be not you ashamed to
show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.

Oph.
You are naught, you are naught: I'll mark the play.

Pro.
   For us, and for our tragedy,
   Here stooping to your clemency,
   We beg your hearing patiently.

Ham.
Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?

Oph.
'Tis brief, my lord.

Ham.
As woman's love.

[Enter a King and a Queen.]

P. King.
Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
And thirty dozen moons with borrow'd sheen
About the world have times twelve thirties been,
Since love our hearts, and Hymen did our hands,
Unite commutual in most sacred bands.

P. Queen.
So many journeys may the sun and moon
Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
But, woe is me, you are so sick of late,
So far from cheer and from your former state.
That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must:
For women's fear and love holds quantity;
In neither aught, or in extremity.
Now, what my love is, proof hath made you know;
And as my love is siz'd, my fear is so:
Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.

P. King.
Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;
My operant powers their functions leave to do:
And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
Honour'd, belov'd, and haply one as kind
For husband shalt thou,--

P. Queen.
O, confound the rest!
Such love must needs be treason in my breast:
In second husband let me be accurst!
None wed the second but who kill'd the first.

Ham.
[Aside.] Wormwood, wormwood!

P. Queen.
The instances that second marriage move
Are base respects of thrift, but none of love.
A second time I kill my husband dead
When second husband kisses me in bed.

P. King.
I do believe you think what now you speak;
But what we do determine oft we break.
Purpose is but the slave to memory;
Of violent birth, but poor validity:
Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree;
But fall unshaken when they mellow be.
Most necessary 'tis that we forget
To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt:
What to ourselves in passion we propose,
The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
The violence of either grief or joy
Their own enactures with themselves destroy:
Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament;
Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
This world is not for aye; nor 'tis not strange
That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
The great man down, you mark his favourite flies,
The poor advanc'd makes friends of enemies;
And hitherto doth love on fortune tend:
For who not needs shall never lack a friend;
And who in want a hollow friend doth try,
Directly seasons him his enemy.
But, orderly to end where I begun,--
Our wills and fates do so contrary run
That our devices still are overthrown;
Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own:
So think thou wilt no second husband wed;
But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.

P. Queen.
Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light!
Sport and repose lock from me day and night!
To desperation turn my trust and hope!
An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope!
Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
Meet what I would have well, and it destroy!
Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
If, once a widow, ever I be wife!

Ham.
If she should break it now! [To Ophelia.]

P. King.
'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile;
My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
The tedious day with sleep.
[Sleeps.]

P. Queen.
Sleep rock thy brain,
And never come mischance between us twain!

[Exit.]

Ham.
Madam, how like you this play?

Queen.
The lady protests too much, methinks.

Ham.
O, but she'll keep her word.

King.
Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in't?

Ham.
No, no! They do but jest, poison in jest; no offence i' the
world.

King.
What do you call the play?

Ham.
The Mouse-trap. Marry, how? Tropically. This play is the
image of a murder done in Vienna: Gonzago is the duke's name;
his wife, Baptista: you shall see anon; 'tis a knavish piece of
work: but what o' that? your majesty, and we that have free
souls, it touches us not: let the gall'd jade wince; our withers
are unwrung.

[Enter Lucianus.]

This is one Lucianus, nephew to the King.

Oph.
You are a good chorus, my lord.

Ham.
I could interpret between you and your love, if I could see
the puppets dallying.

Oph.
You are keen, my lord, you are keen.

Ham.
It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.

Oph.
Still better, and worse.

Ham.
So you must take your husbands.--Begin, murderer; pox, leave
thy damnable faces, and begin. Come:--'The croaking raven doth
bellow for revenge.'

Luc.
Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing;
Confederate season, else no creature seeing;
Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,
With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,
Thy natural magic and dire property
On wholesome life usurp immediately.

[Pours the poison into the sleeper's ears.]

Ham.
He poisons him i' the garden for's estate. His name's Gonzago:
The story is extant, and written in very choice Italian; you
shall see anon how the murderer gets the love of Gonzago's wife.

Oph.
The King rises.

Ham.
What, frighted with false fire!

Queen.
How fares my lord?

Pol.
Give o'er the play.

King.
Give me some light:--away!

All.
Lights, lights, lights!

[Exeunt all but Hamlet and Horatio.]

Ham.
   Why, let the strucken deer go weep,
     The hart ungalled play;
   For some must watch, while some must sleep:
     So runs the world away.--
Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers--if the rest of my
fortunes turn Turk with me,--with two Provincial roses on my
razed shoes, get me a fellowship in a cry of players, sir?

Hor.
Half a share.

Ham.
     A whole one, I.
   For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
     This realm dismantled was
   Of Jove himself; and now reigns here
     A very, very--pajock.

Hor.
You might have rhymed.

Ham.
O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for a thousand
pound! Didst perceive?

Hor.
Very well, my lord.

Ham.
Upon the talk of the poisoning?--

Hor.
I did very well note him.

Ham.
Ah, ha!--Come, some music! Come, the recorders!--
   For if the king like not the comedy,
   Why then, belike he likes it not, perdy.
Come, some music!

[Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.]

Guil.
Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.

Ham.
Sir, a whole history.

Guil.
The king, sir--

Ham.
Ay, sir, what of him?

Guil.
Is, in his retirement, marvellous distempered.

Ham.
With drink, sir?

Guil.
No, my lord; rather with choler.

Ham.
Your wisdom should show itself more richer to signify this to
the doctor; for me to put him to his purgation would perhaps
plunge him into far more choler.

Guil.
Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame, and start
not so wildly from my affair.

Ham.
I am tame, sir:--pronounce.

Guil.
The queen, your mother, in most great affliction of spirit,
hath sent me to you.

Ham.
You are welcome.

Guil.
Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right breed.
If it shall please you to make me a wholesome answer, I will do
your mother's commandment: if not, your pardon and my return
shall be the end of my business.

Ham.
Sir, I cannot.

Guil.
What, my lord?

Ham.
Make you a wholesome answer; my wit's diseased: but, sir, such
answer as I can make, you shall command; or rather, as you say,
my mother: therefore no more, but to the matter: my mother, you
say,--

Ros.
Then thus she says: your behaviour hath struck her into
amazement and admiration.

Ham.
O wonderful son, that can so stonish a mother!--But is there no
sequel at the heels of this mother's admiration?

Ros.
She desires to speak with you in her closet ere you go to bed.

Ham.
We shall obey, were she ten times our mother. Have you any
further trade with us?

Ros.
My lord, you once did love me.

Ham.
And so I do still, by these pickers and stealers.

Ros.
Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? you do, surely,
bar the door upon your own liberty if you deny your griefs to
your friend.

Ham.
Sir, I lack advancement.

Ros.
How can that be, when you have the voice of the king himself
for your succession in Denmark?

Ham.
Ay, sir, but 'While the grass grows'--the proverb is something
musty.

[Re-enter the Players, with recorders.]

O, the recorders:--let me see one.--To withdraw with you:--why do
you go about to recover the wind of me, as if you would drive me
into a toil?

Guil.
O my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too unmannerly.

Ham.
I do not well understand that. Will you play upon this pipe?

Guil.
My lord, I cannot.

Ham.
I pray you.

Guil.
Believe me, I cannot.

Ham.
I do beseech you.

Guil.
I know, no touch of it, my lord.

Ham.
'Tis as easy as lying: govern these ventages with your
finger and thumb, give it breath with your mouth, and it will
discourse most eloquent music. Look you, these are the stops.

Guil.
But these cannot I command to any utterance of harmony; I
have not the skill.

Ham.
Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of me! You
would play upon me; you would seem to know my stops; you would
pluck out the heart of my mystery; you would sound me from my
lowest note to the top of my compass; and there is much music,
excellent voice, in this little organ, yet cannot you make it
speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am easier to be played on than a
pipe? Call me what instrument you will, though you can fret me,
you cannot play upon me.

[Enter Polonius.]

God bless you, sir!

Pol.
My lord, the queen would speak with you, and presently.

Ham.
Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?

Pol.
By the mass, and 'tis like a camel indeed.

Ham.
Methinks it is like a weasel.

Pol.
It is backed like a weasel.

Ham.
Or like a whale.

Pol.
Very like a whale.

Ham.
Then will I come to my mother by and by.--They fool me to the
top of my bent.--I will come by and by.

Pol.
I will say so.

[Exit.]

Ham.
By-and-by is easily said.

[Exit Polonius.]

--Leave me, friends.

[Exeunt Ros, Guil., Hor., and Players.]

'Tis now the very witching time of night,
When churchyards yawn, and hell itself breathes out
Contagion to this world: now could I drink hot blood,
And do such bitter business as the day
Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother.--
O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom:
Let me be cruel, not unnatural;
I will speak daggers to her, but use none;
My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites,--
How in my words somever she be shent,
To give them seals never, my soul, consent!

[Exit.]



Scene III. A room in the Castle.

[Enter King, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.]

King.
I like him not; nor stands it safe with us
To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you;
I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
And he to England shall along with you:
The terms of our estate may not endure
Hazard so near us as doth hourly grow
Out of his lunacies.

Guil.
We will ourselves provide:
Most holy and religious fear it is
To keep those many many bodies safe
That live and feed upon your majesty.

Ros.
The single and peculiar life is bound,
With all the strength and armour of the mind,
To keep itself from 'noyance; but much more
That spirit upon whose weal depend and rest
The lives of many. The cease of majesty
Dies not alone; but like a gulf doth draw
What's near it with it: it is a massy wheel,
Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount,
To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
Are mortis'd and adjoin'd; which, when it falls,
Each small annexment, petty consequence,
Attends the boisterous ruin. Never alone
Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.

King.
Arm you, I pray you, to this speedy voyage;
For we will fetters put upon this fear,
Which now goes too free-footed.

Ros and Guil.
We will haste us.

[Exeunt Ros. and Guil.]

[Enter Polonius.]

Pol.
My lord, he's going to his mother's closet:
Behind the arras I'll convey myself
To hear the process; I'll warrant she'll tax him home:
And, as you said, and wisely was it said,
'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,
Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
The speech, of vantage. Fare you well, my liege:
I'll call upon you ere you go to bed,
And tell you what I know.

King.
Thanks, dear my lord.

[Exit Polonius.]

O, my offence is rank, it smells to heaven;
It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,--
A brother's murder!--Pray can I not,
Though inclination be as sharp as will:
My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent;
And, like a man to double business bound,
I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,--
Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
But to confront the visage of offence?
And what's in prayer but this twofold force,--
To be forestalled ere we come to fall,
Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
Can serve my turn? Forgive me my foul murder!--
That cannot be; since I am still possess'd
Of those effects for which I did the murder,--
My crown, mine own ambition, and my queen.
May one be pardon'd and retain the offence?
In the corrupted currents of this world
Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice;
And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
Buys out the law; but 'tis not so above;
There is no shuffling;--there the action lies
In his true nature; and we ourselves compell'd,
Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
To give in evidence. What then? what rests?
Try what repentance can: what can it not?
Yet what can it when one cannot repent?
O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
O limed soul, that, struggling to be free,
Art more engag'd! Help, angels! Make assay:
Bow, stubborn knees; and, heart, with strings of steel,
Be soft as sinews of the new-born babe!
All may be well.

[Retires and kneels.]

[Enter Hamlet.]

Ham.
Now might I do it pat, now he is praying;
And now I'll do't;--and so he goes to heaven;
And so am I reveng'd.--that would be scann'd:
A villain kills my father; and for that,
I, his sole son, do this same villain send
To heaven.
O, this is hire and salary, not revenge.
He took my father grossly, full of bread;
With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
And how his audit stands, who knows save heaven?
But in our circumstance and course of thought,
'Tis heavy with him: and am I, then, reveng'd,
To take him in the purging of his soul,
When he is fit and season'd for his passage?
No.
Up, sword, and know thou a more horrid hent:
When he is drunk asleep; or in his rage;
Or in the incestuous pleasure of his bed;
At gaming, swearing; or about some act
That has no relish of salvation in't;--
Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven;
And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays:
This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.

[Exit.]

[The King rises and advances.]

King.
My words fly up, my thoughts remain below:
Words without thoughts never to heaven go.

[Exit.]



Scene IV. Another room in the castle.

[Enter Queen and Polonius.]

Pol.
He will come straight. Look you lay home to him:
Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
And that your grace hath screen'd and stood between
Much heat and him. I'll silence me e'en here.
Pray you, be round with him.

Ham.
[Within.] Mother, mother, mother!

Queen.
I'll warrant you:
Fear me not:--withdraw; I hear him coming.

[Polonius goes behind the arras.]

[Enter Hamlet.]

Ham.
Now, mother, what's the matter?

Queen.
Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.

Ham.
Mother, you have my father much offended.

Queen.
Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.

Ham.
Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.

Queen.
Why, how now, Hamlet!

Ham.
What's the matter now?

Queen.
Have you forgot me?

Ham.
No, by the rood, not so:
You are the Queen, your husband's brother's wife,
And,--would it were not so!--you are my mother.

Queen.
Nay, then, I'll set those to you that can speak.

Ham.
Come, come, and sit you down; you shall not budge;
You go not till I set you up a glass
Where you may see the inmost part of you.

Queen.
What wilt thou do? thou wilt not murder me?--
Help, help, ho!

Pol.
[Behind.] What, ho! help, help, help!

Ham.
How now? a rat? [Draws.]
Dead for a ducat, dead!

[Makes a pass through the arras.]

Pol.
[Behind.] O, I am slain!

[Falls and dies.]

Queen.
O me, what hast thou done?

Ham.
Nay, I know not: is it the king?

[Draws forth Polonius.]

Queen.
O, what a rash and bloody deed is this!

Ham.
A bloody deed!--almost as bad, good mother,
As kill a king and marry with his brother.

Queen.
As kill a king!

Ham.
Ay, lady, 'twas my word.--
Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
[To Polonius.]
I took thee for thy better: take thy fortune;
Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.--
Leave wringing of your hands: peace! sit you down,
And let me wring your heart: for so I shall,
If it be made of penetrable stuff;
If damned custom have not braz'd it so
That it is proof and bulwark against sense.

Queen.
What have I done, that thou dar'st wag thy tongue
In noise so rude against me?

Ham.
Such an act
That blurs the grace and blush of modesty;
Calls virtue hypocrite; takes off the rose
From the fair forehead of an innocent love,
And sets a blister there; makes marriage-vows
As false as dicers' oaths: O, such a deed
As from the body of contraction plucks
The very soul, and sweet religion makes
A rhapsody of words: heaven's face doth glow;
Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
With tristful visage, as against the doom,
Is thought-sick at the act.

Queen.
Ah me, what act,
That roars so loud, and thunders in the index?

Ham.
Look here upon this picture, and on this,--
The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
See what a grace was seated on this brow;
Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
An eye like Mars, to threaten and command;
A station like the herald Mercury
New lighted on a heaven-kissing hill:
A combination and a form, indeed,
Where every god did seem to set his seal,
To give the world assurance of a man;
This was your husband.--Look you now what follows:
Here is your husband, like a milldew'd ear
Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?
Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes?
You cannot call it love; for at your age
The hey-day in the blood is tame, it's humble,
And waits upon the judgment: and what judgment
Would step from this to this? Sense, sure, you have,
Else could you not have motion: but sure that sense
Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err;
Nor sense to ecstacy was ne'er so thrall'd
But it reserv'd some quantity of choice
To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,
Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
Or but a sickly part of one true sense
Could not so mope.
O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,
If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,
To flaming youth let virtue be as wax,
And melt in her own fire: proclaim no shame
When the compulsive ardour gives the charge,
Since frost itself as actively doth burn,
And reason panders will.

Queen.
O Hamlet, speak no more:
Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul;
And there I see such black and grained spots
As will not leave their tinct.

Ham.
Nay, but to live
In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
Over the nasty sty,--

Queen.
O, speak to me no more;
These words like daggers enter in mine ears;
No more, sweet Hamlet.

Ham.
A murderer and a villain;
A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings;
A cutpurse of the empire and the rule,
That from a shelf the precious diadem stole
And put it in his pocket!

Queen.
No more.

Ham.
A king of shreds and patches!--

[Enter Ghost.]

Save me and hover o'er me with your wings,
You heavenly guards!--What would your gracious figure?

Queen.
Alas, he's mad!

Ham.
Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
That, laps'd in time and passion, lets go by
The important acting of your dread command?
O, say!

Ghost.
Do not forget. This visitation
Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
But, look, amazement on thy mother sits:
O, step between her and her fighting soul,--
Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works,--
Speak to her, Hamlet.

Ham.
How is it with you, lady?

Queen.
Alas, how is't with you,
That you do bend your eye on vacancy,
And with the incorporal air do hold discourse?
Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep;
And, as the sleeping soldiers in the alarm,
Your bedded hairs, like life in excrements,
Start up and stand an end. O gentle son,
Upon the heat and flame of thy distemper
Sprinkle cool patience! Whereon do you look?

Ham.
On him, on him! Look you how pale he glares!
His form and cause conjoin'd, preaching to stones,
Would make them capable.--Do not look upon me;
Lest with this piteous action you convert
My stern effects: then what I have to do
Will want true colour; tears perchance for blood.

Queen.
To whom do you speak this?

Ham.
Do you see nothing there?

Queen.
Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.

Ham.
Nor did you nothing hear?

Queen.
No, nothing but ourselves.

Ham.
Why, look you there! look how it steals away!
My father, in his habit as he liv'd!
Look, where he goes, even now out at the portal!

[Exit Ghost.]

Queen.
This is the very coinage of your brain:
This bodiless creation ecstasy
Is very cunning in.

Ham.
Ecstasy!
My pulse, as yours, doth temperately keep time,
And makes as healthful music: it is not madness
That I have utter'd: bring me to the test,
And I the matter will re-word; which madness
Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
Lay not that flattering unction to your soul
That not your trespass, but my madness speaks:
It will but skin and film the ulcerous place,
Whilst rank corruption, mining all within,
Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven;
Repent what's past; avoid what is to come;
And do not spread the compost on the weeds,
To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue;
For in the fatness of these pursy times
Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg,
Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.

Queen.
O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.

Ham.
O, throw away the worser part of it,
And live the purer with the other half.
Good night: but go not to mine uncle's bed;
Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
That monster custom, who all sense doth eat,
Of habits evil, is angel yet in this,--
That to the use of actions fair and good
He likewise gives a frock or livery
That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night;
And that shall lend a kind of easiness
To the next abstinence: the next more easy;
For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
And either curb the devil, or throw him out
With wondrous potency. Once more, good-night:
And when you are desirous to be bles'd,
I'll blessing beg of you.--For this same lord
[Pointing to Polonius.]
I do repent; but heaven hath pleas'd it so,
To punish me with this, and this with me,
That I must be their scourge and minister.
I will bestow him, and will answer well
The death I gave him. So again, good-night.--
I must be cruel, only to be kind:
Thus bad begins, and worse remains behind.--
One word more, good lady.

Queen.
What shall I do?

Ham.
Not this, by no means, that I bid you do:
Let the bloat king tempt you again to bed;
Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,
Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
Make you to ravel all this matter out,
That I essentially am not in madness,
But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know;
For who that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib,
Such dear concernings hide? who would do so?
No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
Unpeg the basket on the house's top,
Let the birds fly, and, like the famous ape,
To try conclusions, in the basket creep
And break your own neck down.

Queen.
Be thou assur'd, if words be made of breath,
And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
What thou hast said to me.

Ham.
I must to England; you know that?

Queen.
Alack,
I had forgot: 'tis so concluded on.

Ham.
There's letters seal'd: and my two schoolfellows,--
Whom I will trust as I will adders fang'd,--
They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way
And marshal me to knavery. Let it work;
For 'tis the sport to have the enginer
Hoist with his own petard: and 't shall go hard
But I will delve one yard below their mines
And blow them at the moon: O, 'tis most sweet,
When in one line two crafts directly meet.--
This man shall set me packing:
I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room.--
Mother, good-night.--Indeed, this counsellor
Is now most still, most secret, and most grave,
Who was in life a foolish peating knave.
Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you:--
Good night, mother.

[Exeunt severally; Hamlet, dragging out Polonius.]



ACT IV.

Scene I. A room in the Castle.

[Enter King, Queen, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.]

King.
There's matter in these sighs. These profound heaves
You must translate: 'tis fit we understand them.
Where is your son?

Queen.
Bestow this place on us a little while.

[To Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, who go out.]

Ah, my good lord, what have I seen to-night!

King.
What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?

Queen.
Mad as the sea and wind, when both contend
Which is the mightier: in his lawless fit
Behind the arras hearing something stir,
Whips out his rapier, cries 'A rat, a rat!'
And in this brainish apprehension, kills
The unseen good old man.

King.
O heavy deed!
It had been so with us, had we been there:
His liberty is full of threats to all;
To you yourself, to us, to every one.
Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer'd?
It will be laid to us, whose providence
Should have kept short, restrain'd, and out of haunt
This mad young man. But so much was our love
We would not understand what was most fit;
But, like the owner of a foul disease,
To keep it from divulging, let it feed
Even on the pith of life. Where is he gone?

Queen.
To draw apart the body he hath kill'd:
O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
Among a mineral of metals base,
Shows itself pure: he weeps for what is done.

King.
O Gertrude, come away!
The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch
But we will ship him hence: and this vile deed
We must with all our majesty and skill
Both countenance and excuse.--Ho, Guildenstern!

[Re-enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.]

Friends both, go join you with some further aid:
Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him:
Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
Into the chapel. I pray you, haste in this.

[Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.]

Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends;
And let them know both what we mean to do
And what's untimely done: so haply slander,--
Whose whisper o'er the world's diameter,
As level as the cannon to his blank,
Transports his poison'd shot,--may miss our name,
And hit the woundless air.--O, come away!
My soul is full of discord and dismay.

[Exeunt.]

Scene II. Another room in the Castle.

[Enter Hamlet.]

Ham.
Safely stowed.

Ros. and Guil.
[Within.] Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!

Ham.
What noise? who calls on Hamlet? O, here they come.

[Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.]

Ros.
What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?

Ham.
Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.

Ros.
Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence,
And bear it to the chapel.

Ham.
Do not believe it.

Ros.
Believe what?

Ham.
That I can keep your counsel, and not mine own. Besides, to be
demanded of a sponge!--what replication should be made by the son
of a king?

Ros.
Take you me for a sponge, my lord?

Ham.
Ay, sir; that soaks up the King's countenance, his rewards,
his authorities. But such officers do the king best service in
the end: he keeps them, like an ape, in the corner of his jaw;
first mouthed, to be last swallowed: when he needs what you have
gleaned, it is but squeezing you, and, sponge, you shall be dry
again.

Ros.
I understand you not, my lord.

Ham.
I am glad of it: a knavish speech sleeps in a foolish ear.

Ros.
My lord, you must tell us where the body is and go with us to
the king.

Ham.
The body is with the king, but the king is not with the body.
The king is a thing,--

Guil.
A thing, my lord!

Ham.
Of nothing: bring me to him. Hide fox, and all after.

[Exeunt.]



Scene III. Another room in the Castle.

[Enter King,attended.]

King.
I have sent to seek him and to find the body.
How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
Yet must not we put the strong law on him:
He's lov'd of the distracted multitude,
Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
And where 'tis so, the offender's scourge is weigh'd,
But never the offence. To bear all smooth and even,
This sudden sending him away must seem
Deliberate pause: diseases desperate grown
By desperate appliance are reliev'd,
Or not at all.

[Enter Rosencrantz.]

How now! what hath befall'n?

Ros.
Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,
We cannot get from him.

King.
But where is he?

Ros.
Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.

King.
Bring him before us.

Ros.
Ho, Guildenstern! bring in my lord.

[Enter Hamlet and Guildenstern.]

King.
Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?

Ham.
At supper.

King.
At supper! where?

Ham.
Not where he eats, but where he is eaten: a certain
convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your worm is your
only emperor for diet: we fat all creatures else to fat us, and
we fat ourselves for maggots: your fat king and your lean beggar
is but variable service,--two dishes, but to one table: that's
the end.

King.
Alas, alas!

Ham.
A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a king, and eat
of the fish that hath fed of that worm.

King.
What dost thou mean by this?

Ham.
Nothing but to show you how a king may go a progress through
the guts of a beggar.

King.
Where is Polonius?

Ham.
In heaven: send thither to see: if your messenger find him not
there, seek him i' the other place yourself. But, indeed, if you
find him not within this month, you shall nose him as you go up
the stairs into the lobby.

King.
Go seek him there. [To some Attendants.]

Ham.
He will stay till you come.

[Exeunt Attendants.]

King.
Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety,--
Which we do tender, as we dearly grieve
For that which thou hast done,--must send thee hence
With fiery quickness: therefore prepare thyself;
The bark is ready, and the wind at help,
The associates tend, and everything is bent
For England.

Ham.
For England!

King.
Ay, Hamlet.

Ham.
Good.

King.
So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.

Ham.
I see a cherub that sees them.--But, come; for England!--
Farewell, dear mother.

King.
Thy loving father, Hamlet.

Ham.
My mother: father and mother is man and wife; man and wife is
one flesh; and so, my mother.--Come, for England!

[Exit.]

King.
Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard;
Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night:
Away! for everything is seal'd and done
That else leans on the affair: pray you, make haste.

[Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.]

And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught,--
As my great power thereof may give thee sense,
Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
Pays homage to us,--thou mayst not coldly set
Our sovereign process; which imports at full,
By letters conjuring to that effect,
The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;
For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
And thou must cure me: till I know 'tis done,
Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun.

[Exit.]



Scene IV. A plain in Denmark.

[Enter Fortinbras, and Forces marching.]

For.
Go, Captain, from me greet the Danish king:
Tell him that, by his license, Fortinbras
Craves the conveyance of a promis'd march
Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
If that his majesty would aught with us,
We shall express our duty in his eye;
And let him know so.

Capt.
I will do't, my lord.

For.
Go softly on.

[Exeunt all For. and Forces.]

[Enter Hamlet, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, &c.]

Ham.
Good sir, whose powers are these?

Capt.
They are of Norway, sir.

Ham.
How purpos'd, sir, I pray you?

Capt.
Against some part of Poland.

Ham.
Who commands them, sir?

Capt.
The nephew to old Norway, Fortinbras.

Ham.
Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
Or for some frontier?

Capt.
Truly to speak, and with no addition,
We go to gain a little patch of ground
That hath in it no profit but the name.
To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.

Ham.
Why, then the Polack never will defend it.

Capt.
Yes, it is already garrison'd.

Ham.
Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats
Will not debate the question of this straw:
This is the imposthume of much wealth and peace,
That inward breaks, and shows no cause without
Why the man dies.--I humbly thank you, sir.

Capt.
God b' wi' you, sir.

[Exit.]

Ros.
Will't please you go, my lord?

Ham.
I'll be with you straight. Go a little before.

[Exeunt all but Hamlet.]

How all occasions do inform against me
And spur my dull revenge! What is a man,
If his chief good and market of his time
Be but to sleep and feed? a beast, no more.
Sure he that made us with such large discourse,
Looking before and after, gave us not
That capability and godlike reason
To fust in us unus'd. Now, whether it be
Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
Of thinking too precisely on the event,--
A thought which, quarter'd, hath but one part wisdom
And ever three parts coward,--I do not know
Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do;'
Sith I have cause, and will, and strength, and means
To do't. Examples, gross as earth, exhort me:
Witness this army, of such mass and charge,
Led by a delicate and tender prince;
Whose spirit, with divine ambition puff'd,
Makes mouths at the invisible event;
Exposing what is mortal and unsure
To all that fortune, death, and danger dare,
Even for an egg-shell. Rightly to be great
Is not to stir without great argument,
But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
When honour's at the stake. How stand I, then,
That have a father kill'd, a mother stain'd,
Excitements of my reason and my blood,
And let all sleep? while, to my shame, I see
The imminent death of twenty thousand men
That, for a fantasy and trick of fame,
Go to their graves like beds; fight for a plot
Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
Which is not tomb enough and continent
To hide the slain?--O, from this time forth,
My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!

[Exit.]



Scene V. Elsinore. A room in the Castle.

[Enter Queen and Horatio.]

Queen.
I will not speak with her.

Gent.
She is importunate; indeed distract:
Her mood will needs be pitied.

Queen.
What would she have?

Gent.
She speaks much of her father; says she hears
There's tricks i' the world, and hems, and beats her heart;
Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt,
That carry but half sense: her speech is nothing,
Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts;
Which, as her winks, and nods, and gestures yield them,
Indeed would make one think there might be thought,
Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
'Twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew
Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.

Queen.
Let her come in.

[Exit Horatio.]

To my sick soul, as sin's true nature is,
Each toy seems Prologue to some great amiss:
So full of artless jealousy is guilt,
It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.

[Re-enter Horatio with Ophelia.]

Oph.
Where is the beauteous majesty of Denmark?

Queen.
How now, Ophelia?

Oph. [Sings.]
   How should I your true love know
     From another one?
   By his cockle bat and' staff
     And his sandal shoon.

Queen.
Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?

Oph.
Say you? nay, pray you, mark.
[Sings.]
   He is dead and gone, lady,
     He is dead and gone;
   At his head a grass green turf,
     At his heels a stone.

Queen.
Nay, but Ophelia--

Oph.
Pray you, mark.
[Sings.]
   White his shroud as the mountain snow,

[Enter King.]

Queen.
Alas, look here, my lord!

Oph.
[Sings.]
     Larded all with sweet flowers;
   Which bewept to the grave did go
     With true-love showers.

King.
How do you, pretty lady?

Oph.
Well, God dild you! They say the owl was a baker's daughter.
Lord, we know what we are, but know not what we may be. God be at
your table!

King.
Conceit upon her father.

Oph.
Pray you, let's have no words of this; but when they ask you what
it means, say you this:
[Sings.]
   To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day
     All in the morning bedtime,
   And I a maid at your window,
     To be your Valentine.

   Then up he rose and donn'd his clothes,
     And dupp'd the chamber door,
   Let in the maid, that out a maid
     Never departed more.

King.
Pretty Ophelia!

Oph.
Indeed, la, without an oath, I'll make an end on't:
[Sings.]
   By Gis and by Saint Charity,
     Alack, and fie for shame!
   Young men will do't if they come to't;
     By cock, they are to blame.

   Quoth she, before you tumbled me,
     You promis'd me to wed.
   So would I ha' done, by yonder sun,
     An thou hadst not come to my bed.

King.
How long hath she been thus?

Oph.
I hope all will be well. We must be patient: but I cannot
choose but weep, to think they would lay him i' the cold ground.
My brother shall know of it: and so I thank you for your good
counsel.--Come, my coach!--Good night, ladies; good night, sweet
ladies; good night, good night.

[Exit.]

King.
Follow her close; give her good watch, I pray you.

[Exit Horatio.]

O, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs
All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
When sorrows come, they come not single spies,
But in battalions! First, her father slain:
Next, your son gone; and he most violent author
Of his own just remove: the people muddied,
Thick and and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers
For good Polonius' death; and we have done but greenly
In hugger-mugger to inter him: poor Ophelia
Divided from herself and her fair judgment,
Without the which we are pictures or mere beasts:
Last, and as much containing as all these,
Her brother is in secret come from France;
Feeds on his wonder, keeps himself in clouds,
And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
With pestilent speeches of his father's death;
Wherein necessity, of matter beggar'd,
Will nothing stick our person to arraign
In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this,
Like to a murdering piece, in many places
Give, me superfluous death.

[A noise within.]

Queen.
Alack, what noise is this?

King.
Where are my Switzers? let them guard the door.

[Enter a Gentleman.]

What is the matter?

Gent.
Save yourself, my lord:
The ocean, overpeering of his list,
Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
Than young Laertes, in a riotous head,
O'erbears your offices. The rabble call him lord;
And, as the world were now but to begin,
Antiquity forgot, custom not known,
The ratifiers and props of every word,
They cry 'Choose we! Laertes shall be king!'
Caps, hands, and tongues applaud it to the clouds,
'Laertes shall be king! Laertes king!'

Queen.
How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!
O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!

[A noise within.]

King.
The doors are broke.

[Enter Laertes, armed; Danes following.]

Laer.
Where is this king?--Sirs, stand you all without.

Danes.
No, let's come in.

Laer.
I pray you, give me leave.

Danes.
We will, we will.

[They retire without the door.]

Laer.
I thank you:--keep the door.--O thou vile king,
Give me my father!

Queen.
Calmly, good Laertes.

Laer.
That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard;
Cries cuckold to my father; brands the harlot
Even here, between the chaste unsmirched brow
Of my true mother.

King.
What is the cause, Laertes,
That thy rebellion looks so giant-like?--
Let him go, Gertrude; do not fear our person:
There's such divinity doth hedge a king,
That treason can but peep to what it would,
Acts little of his will.--Tell me, Laertes,
Why thou art thus incens'd.--Let him go, Gertrude:--
Speak, man.

Laer.
Where is my father?

King.
Dead.

Queen.
But not by him.

King.
Let him demand his fill.

Laer.
How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil!
Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
I dare damnation:--to this point I stand,--
That both the worlds, I give to negligence,
Let come what comes; only I'll be reveng'd
Most throughly for my father.

King.
Who shall stay you?

Laer.
My will, not all the world:
And for my means, I'll husband them so well,
They shall go far with little.

King.
Good Laertes,
If you desire to know the certainty
Of your dear father's death, is't writ in your revenge
That, sweepstake, you will draw both friend and foe,
Winner and loser?

Laer.
None but his enemies.

King.
Will you know them then?

Laer.
To his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms;
And, like the kind life-rendering pelican,
Repast them with my blood.

King.
Why, now you speak
Like a good child and a true gentleman.
That I am guiltless of your father's death,
And am most sensibly in grief for it,
It shall as level to your judgment pierce
As day does to your eye.

Danes.
[Within] Let her come in.

Laer.
How now! What noise is that?

[Re-enter Ophelia, fantastically dressed with straws and
flowers.]

O heat, dry up my brains! tears seven times salt,
Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!--
By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight,
Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May!
Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!--
O heavens! is't possible a young maid's wits
Should be as mortal as an old man's life?
Nature is fine in love; and where 'tis fine,
It sends some precious instance of itself
After the thing it loves.

Oph.
[Sings.]
   They bore him barefac'd on the bier
   Hey no nonny, nonny, hey nonny
   And on his grave rain'd many a tear.--

Fare you well, my dove!

Laer.
Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge,
It could not move thus.

Oph.
You must sing 'Down a-down, an you call him a-down-a.' O,
how the wheel becomes it! It is the false steward, that stole his
master's daughter.

Laer.
This nothing's more than matter.

Oph.
There's rosemary, that's for remembrance; pray, love,
remember: and there is pansies, that's for thoughts.

Laer.
A document in madness,--thoughts and remembrance fitted.

Oph.
There's fennel for you, and columbines:--there's rue for you;
and here's some for me:--we may call it herb of grace o'
Sundays:--O, you must wear your rue with a difference.--There's a
daisy:--I would give you some violets, but they wither'd all when
my father died:--they say he made a good end,--
[Sings.]
   For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy,--

Laer.
Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
She turns to favour and to prettiness.

Oph.
[Sings.]
   And will he not come again?
   And will he not come again?
     No, no, he is dead,
     Go to thy death-bed,
   He never will come again.

   His beard was as white as snow,
   All flaxen was his poll:
     He is gone, he is gone,
     And we cast away moan:
   God ha' mercy on his soul!

And of all Christian souls, I pray God.--God b' wi' ye.

[Exit.]

Laer.
Do you see this, O God?

King.
Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will,
And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me.
If by direct or by collateral hand
They find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give,
Our crown, our life, and all that we call ours,
To you in satisfaction; but if not,
Be you content to lend your patience to us,
And we shall jointly labour with your soul
To give it due content.

Laer.
Let this be so;
His means of death, his obscure burial,--
No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
No noble rite nor formal ostentation,--
Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
That I must call't in question.

King.
So you shall;
And where the offence is let the great axe fall.
I pray you go with me.

[Exeunt.]



Scene VI. Another room in the Castle.

[Enter Horatio and a Servant.]

Hor.
What are they that would speak with me?

Servant.
Sailors, sir: they say they have letters for you.

Hor.
Let them come in.

[Exit Servant.]

I do not know from what part of the world
I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet.

[Enter Sailors.]

I Sailor.
God bless you, sir.

Hor.
Let him bless thee too.

Sailor.
He shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for you,
sir,--it comes from the ambassador that was bound for England; if
your name be Horatio, as I am let to know it is.

Hor.
[Reads.] 'Horatio, when thou shalt have overlooked
this, give these fellows some means to the king: they have
letters for him. Ere we were two days old at sea, a pirate of
very warlike appointment gave us chase. Finding ourselves too
slow of sail, we put on a compelled valour, and in the grapple I
boarded them: on the instant they got clear of our ship; so I
alone became their prisoner. They have dealt with me like thieves
of mercy: but they knew what they did; I am to do a good turn for
them. Let the king have the letters I have sent; and repair thou
to me with as much haste as thou wouldst fly death. I have words
to speak in thine ear will make thee dumb; yet are they much too
light for the bore of the matter. These good fellows will bring
thee where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their course
for England: of them I have much to tell thee. Farewell.
He that thou knowest thine,       HAMLET.'

Come, I will give you way for these your letters;
And do't the speedier, that you may direct me
To him from whom you brought them.

[Exeunt.]



Scene VII. Another room in the Castle.

[Enter King and Laertes.]

King.
Now must your conscience my acquittance seal,
And you must put me in your heart for friend,
Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
That he which hath your noble father slain
Pursu'd my life.

Laer.
It well appears:--but tell me
Why you proceeded not against these feats,
So crimeful and so capital in nature,
As by your safety, wisdom, all things else,
You mainly were stirr'd up.

King.
O, for two special reasons;
Which may to you, perhaps, seem much unsinew'd,
But yet to me they are strong. The queen his mother
Lives almost by his looks; and for myself,--
My virtue or my plague, be it either which,--
She's so conjunctive to my life and soul,
That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,
I could not but by her. The other motive,
Why to a public count I might not go,
Is the great love the general gender bear him;
Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
Convert his gyves to graces; so that my arrows,
Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
Would have reverted to my bow again,
And not where I had aim'd them.

Laer.
And so have I a noble father lost;
A sister driven into desperate terms,--
Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
Stood challenger on mount of all the age
For her perfections:--but my revenge will come.

King.
Break not your sleeps for that:--you must not think
That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
That we can let our beard be shook with danger,
And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more:
I lov'd your father, and we love ourself;
And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine,--

[Enter a Messenger.]

How now! What news?

Mess.
Letters, my lord, from Hamlet:
This to your majesty; this to the queen.

King.
From Hamlet! Who brought them?

Mess.
Sailors, my lord, they say; I saw them not:
They were given me by Claudio:--he receiv'd them
Of him that brought them.

King.
Laertes, you shall hear them.
Leave us.

[Exit Messenger.]

[Reads]'High and mighty,--You shall know I am set naked on your
kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see your kingly eyes:
when I shall, first asking your pardon thereunto, recount the
occasions of my sudden and more strange return.       HAMLET.'

What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?

Laer.
Know you the hand?

King.
'Tis Hamlet's character:--'Naked!'--
And in a postscript here, he says 'alone.'
Can you advise me?

Laer.
I am lost in it, my lord. But let him come;
It warms the very sickness in my heart
That I shall live and tell him to his teeth,
'Thus didest thou.'

King.
If it be so, Laertes,--
As how should it be so? how otherwise?--
Will you be rul'd by me?

Laer.
Ay, my lord;
So you will not o'errule me to a peace.

King.
To thine own peace. If he be now return'd--
As checking at his voyage, and that he means
No more to undertake it,--I will work him
To exploit, now ripe in my device,
Under the which he shall not choose but fall:
And for his death no wind shall breathe;
But even his mother shall uncharge the practice
And call it accident.

Laer.
My lord, I will be rul'd;
The rather if you could devise it so
That I might be the organ.

King.
It falls right.
You have been talk'd of since your travel much,
And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
Wherein they say you shine: your sum of parts
Did not together pluck such envy from him
As did that one; and that, in my regard,
Of the unworthiest siege.

Laer.
What part is that, my lord?

King.
A very riband in the cap of youth,
Yet needful too; for youth no less becomes
The light and careless livery that it wears
Than settled age his sables and his weeds,
Importing health and graveness.--Two months since,
Here was a gentleman of Normandy,--
I've seen myself, and serv'd against, the French,
And they can well on horseback: but this gallant
Had witchcraft in't: he grew unto his seat;
And to such wondrous doing brought his horse,
As had he been incorps'd and demi-natur'd
With the brave beast: so far he topp'd my thought
That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
Come short of what he did.

Laer.
A Norman was't?

King.
A Norman.

Laer.
Upon my life, Lamond.

King.
The very same.

Laer.
I know him well: he is the brooch indeed
And gem of all the nation.

King.
He made confession of you;
And gave you such a masterly report
For art and exercise in your defence,
And for your rapier most especially,
That he cried out, 'twould be a sight indeed
If one could match you: the scrimers of their nation
He swore, had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
If you oppos'd them. Sir, this report of his
Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
That he could nothing do but wish and beg
Your sudden coming o'er, to play with him.
Now, out of this,--

Laer.
What out of this, my lord?

King.
Laertes, was your father dear to you?
Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
A face without a heart?

Laer.
Why ask you this?

King.
Not that I think you did not love your father;
But that I know love is begun by time,
And that I see, in passages of proof,
Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
There lives within the very flame of love
A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it;
And nothing is at a like goodness still;
For goodness, growing to a plurisy,
Dies in his own too much: that we would do,
We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes,
And hath abatements and delays as many
As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents;
And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
That hurts by easing. But to the quick o' the ulcer:--
Hamlet comes back: what would you undertake
To show yourself your father's son in deed
More than in words?

Laer.
To cut his throat i' the church.

King.
No place, indeed, should murder sanctuarize;
Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
Will you do this, keep close within your chamber.
Hamlet return'd shall know you are come home:
We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
And set a double varnish on the fame
The Frenchman gave you; bring you in fine together
And wager on your heads: he, being remiss,
Most generous, and free from all contriving,
Will not peruse the foils; so that with ease,
Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
A sword unbated, and, in a pass of practice,
Requite him for your father.

Laer.
I will do't:
And for that purpose I'll anoint my sword.
I bought an unction of a mountebank,
So mortal that, but dip a knife in it,
Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
Collected from all simples that have virtue
Under the moon, can save the thing from death
This is but scratch'd withal: I'll touch my point
With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
It may be death.

King.
Let's further think of this;
Weigh what convenience both of time and means
May fit us to our shape: if this should fail,
And that our drift look through our bad performance.
'Twere better not assay'd: therefore this project
Should have a back or second, that might hold
If this did blast in proof. Soft! let me see:--
We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings,--
I ha't:
When in your motion you are hot and dry,--
As make your bouts more violent to that end,--
And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepar'd him
A chalice for the nonce; whereon but sipping,
If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
Our purpose may hold there.

[Enter Queen.]

How now, sweet queen!

Queen.
One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
So fast they follow:--your sister's drown'd, Laertes.

Laer.
Drown'd! O, where?

Queen.
There is a willow grows aslant a brook,
That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream;
There with fantastic garlands did she come
Of crowflowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples,
That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them.
There, on the pendant boughs her coronet weeds
Clamb'ring to hang, an envious sliver broke;
When down her weedy trophies and herself
Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide;
And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up;
Which time she chaunted snatches of old tunes;
As one incapable of her own distress,
Or like a creature native and indu'd
Unto that element: but long it could not be
Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
To muddy death.

Laer.
Alas, then she is drown'd?

Queen.
Drown'd, drown'd.

Laer.
Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia,
And therefore I forbid my tears: but yet
It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
Let shame say what it will: when these are gone,
The woman will be out.--Adieu, my lord:
I have a speech of fire, that fain would blaze,
But that this folly douts it.

[Exit.]

King.
Let's follow, Gertrude;
How much I had to do to calm his rage!
Now fear I this will give it start again;
Therefore let's follow.

[Exeunt.]



ACT V.

Scene I. A churchyard.

[Enter two Clowns, with spades, &c.]

1 Clown.
Is she to be buried in Christian burial when she wilfully
seeks her own salvation?

2 Clown.
I tell thee she is; and therefore make her grave straight: the
crowner hath sat on her, and finds it Christian burial.

1 Clown.
How can that be, unless she drowned herself in her own defence?

2 Clown.
Why, 'tis found so.

1 Clown.
It must be se offendendo; it cannot be else. For here lies
the point: if I drown myself wittingly, it argues an act: and an
act hath three branches; it is to act, to do, and to perform:
argal, she drowned herself wittingly.

2 Clown.
Nay, but hear you, goodman delver,--

1 Clown.
Give me leave. Here lies the water; good: here stands the
man; good: if the man go to this water and drown himself, it is,
will he, nill he, he goes,--mark you that: but if the water come
to him and drown him, he drowns not himself; argal, he that is
not guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.

2 Clown.
But is this law?

1 Clown.
Ay, marry, is't--crowner's quest law.

2 Clown.
Will you ha' the truth on't? If this had not been a
gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o' Christian burial.

1 Clown.
Why, there thou say'st: and the more pity that great folk
should have countenance in this world to drown or hang themselves
more than their even Christian.--Come, my spade. There is no
ancient gentlemen but gardeners, ditchers, and grave-makers: they
hold up Adam's profession.

2 Clown.
Was he a gentleman?

1 Clown.
He was the first that ever bore arms.

2 Clown.
Why, he had none.

1 Clown.
What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the Scripture?
The Scripture says Adam digg'd: could he dig without arms? I'll
put another question to thee: if thou answerest me not to the
purpose, confess thyself,--

2 Clown.
Go to.

1 Clown.
What is he that builds stronger than either the mason, the
shipwright, or the carpenter?

2 Clown.
The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a thousand tenants.

1 Clown.
I like thy wit well, in good faith: the gallows does well;
but how does it well? it does well to those that do ill: now,
thou dost ill to say the gallows is built stronger than the
church; argal, the gallows may do well to thee. To't again, come.

2 Clown.
Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or a carpenter?

1 Clown.
Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.

2 Clown.
Marry, now I can tell.

1 Clown.
To't.

2 Clown.
Mass, I cannot tell.

[Enter Hamlet and Horatio, at a distance.]

1 Clown.
Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull ass will
not mend his pace with beating; and when you are asked this
question next, say 'a grave-maker;' the houses he makes last
till doomsday. Go, get thee to Yaughan; fetch me a stoup of
liquor.

[Exit Second Clown.]

[Digs and sings.]

   In youth when I did love, did love,
     Methought it was very sweet;
   To contract, O, the time for, ah, my behove,
     O, methought there was nothing meet.

Ham.
Has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he sings at
grave-making?

Hor.
Custom hath made it in him a property of easiness.

Ham.
'Tis e'en so: the hand of little employment hath the daintier
sense.

1 Clown.
[Sings.]
   But age, with his stealing steps,
     Hath claw'd me in his clutch,
   And hath shipp'd me intil the land,
     As if I had never been such.

[Throws up a skull.]

Ham.
That skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once: how the
knave jowls it to the ground,as if 'twere Cain's jawbone, that
did the first murder! This might be the pate of a politician,
which this ass now o'erreaches; one that would circumvent God,
might it not?

Hor.
It might, my lord.

Ham.
Or of a courtier, which could say 'Good morrow, sweet lord!
How dost thou, good lord?' This might be my lord such-a-one, that
praised my lord such-a-one's horse when he meant to beg
it,--might it not?

Hor.
Ay, my lord.

Ham.
Why, e'en so: and now my Lady Worm's; chapless, and knocked
about the mazard with a sexton's spade: here's fine revolution,
an we had the trick to see't. Did these bones cost no more the
breeding but to play at loggets with 'em? mine ache to think
on't.

1 Clown.
[Sings.]
   A pickaxe and a spade, a spade,
     For and a shrouding sheet;
   O, a pit of clay for to be made
     For such a guest is meet.

[Throws up another skull].

Ham.
There's another: why may not that be the skull of a lawyer?
Where be his quiddits now, his quillets, his cases, his tenures,
and his tricks? why does he suffer this rude knave now to knock
him about the sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him
of his action of battery? Hum! This fellow might be in's time a
great buyer of land, with his statutes, his recognizances, his
fines, his double vouchers, his recoveries: is this the fine of
his fines, and the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
pate full of fine dirt? will his vouchers vouch him no more of
his purchases, and double ones too, than the length and breadth
of a pair of indentures? The very conveyances of his lands will
scarcely lie in this box; and must the inheritor himself have no
more, ha?

Hor.
Not a jot more, my lord.

Ham.
Is not parchment made of sheep-skins?

Hor.
Ay, my lord, And of calf-skins too.

Ham.
They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance in that. I
will speak to this fellow.--Whose grave's this, sir?

1 Clown.
Mine, sir.
[Sings.]
   O, a pit of clay for to be made
     For such a guest is meet.

Ham.
I think it be thine indeed, for thou liest in't.

1 Clown.
You lie out on't, sir, and therefore 'tis not yours: for my part,
I do not lie in't, yet it is mine.

Ham.
Thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it is thine: 'tis for
the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest.

1 Clown.
'Tis a quick lie, sir; 't will away again from me to you.

Ham.
What man dost thou dig it for?

1 Clown. 
For no man, sir.

Ham.
What woman then?

1 Clown.
For none neither.

Ham.
Who is to be buried in't?

1 Clown.
One that was a woman, sir; but, rest her soul, she's dead.

Ham.
How absolute the knave is! We must speak by the card, or
equivocation will undo us. By the Lord, Horatio, these three
years I have taken note of it, the age is grown so picked that
the toe of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier he
galls his kibe.--How long hast thou been a grave-maker?

1 Clown.
Of all the days i' the year, I came to't that day that our
last King Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.

Ham.
How long is that since?

1 Clown.
Cannot you tell that? every fool can tell that: it was the
very day that young Hamlet was born,--he that is mad, and sent
into England.

Ham.
Ay, marry, why was be sent into England?

1 Clown.
Why, because he was mad: he shall recover his wits there;
or, if he do not, it's no great matter there.

Ham.
Why?

1 Clown.
'Twill not he seen in him there; there the men are as mad as he.

Ham.
How came he mad?

1 Clown.
Very strangely, they say.

Ham.
How strangely?

1 Clown.
Faith, e'en with losing his wits.

Ham.
Upon what ground?

1 Clown.
Why, here in Denmark: I have been sexton here, man and boy,
thirty years.

Ham.
How long will a man lie i' the earth ere he rot?

1 Clown.
Faith, if he be not rotten before he die,--as we have many
pocky corses now-a-days that will scarce hold the laying in,--he
will last you some eight year or nine year: a tanner will last
you nine year.

Ham.
Why he more than another?

1 Clown.
Why, sir, his hide is so tann'd with his trade that he will
keep out water a great while; and your water is a sore decayer of
your whoreson dead body. Here's a skull now; this skull hath lain
in the earth three-and-twenty years.

Ham.
Whose was it?

1 Clown.
A whoreson, mad fellow's it was: whose do you think it was?

Ham.
Nay, I know not.

1 Clown.
A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! 'a pour'd a flagon of
Rhenish on my head once. This same skull, sir, was Yorick's
skull, the king's jester.

Ham.
This?

1 Clown.
E'en that.

Ham.
Let me see. [Takes the skull.] Alas, poor Yorick!--I knew him,
Horatio; a fellow of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy: he
hath borne me on his back a thousand times; and now, how abhorred
in my imagination it is! my gorge rises at it. Here hung those
lips that I have kiss'd I know not how oft. Where be your gibes
now? your gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment, that
were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one now, to mock your
own grinning? quite chap-fallen? Now, get you to my lady's
chamber, and tell her, let her paint an inch thick, to this
favour she must come; make her laugh at that.--Pr'ythee, Horatio,
tell me one thing.

Hor.
What's that, my lord?

Ham.
Dost thou think Alexander looked o' this fashion i' the earth?

Hor.
E'en so.

Ham.
And smelt so? Pah!

[Throws down the skull.]

Hor.
E'en so, my lord.

Ham.
To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may not
imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander till he find it
stopping a bung-hole?

Hor.
'Twere to consider too curiously to consider so.

Ham.
No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither with modesty
enough, and likelihood to lead it: as thus: Alexander died,
Alexander was buried, Alexander returneth into dust; the dust is
earth; of earth we make loam; and why of that loam whereto he
was converted might they not stop a beer-barrel?
   Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
   Might stop a hole to keep the wind away.
   O, that that earth which kept the world in awe
   Should patch a wall to expel the winter's flaw!
But soft! but soft! aside!--Here comes the king.

[Enter priests, &c, in procession; the corpse of Ophelia,
Laertes, and Mourners following; King, Queen, their Trains, &c.]

The queen, the courtiers: who is that they follow?
And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
The corse they follow did with desperate hand
Fordo it own life: 'twas of some estate.
Couch we awhile and mark.

[Retiring with Horatio.]

Laer.
What ceremony else?

Ham.
That is Laertes,
A very noble youth: mark.

Laer.
What ceremony else?

1 Priest.
Her obsequies have been as far enlarg'd
As we have warranties: her death was doubtful;
And, but that great command o'ersways the order,
She should in ground unsanctified have lodg'd
Till the last trumpet; for charitable prayers,
Shards, flints, and pebbles should be thrown on her,
Yet here she is allowed her virgin rites,
Her maiden strewments, and the bringing home
Of bell and burial.

Laer.
Must there no more be done?

1 Priest.
No more be done;
We should profane the service of the dead
To sing a requiem and such rest to her
As to peace-parted souls.

Laer.
Lay her i' the earth;--
And from her fair and unpolluted flesh
May violets spring!--I tell thee, churlish priest,
A ministering angel shall my sister be
When thou liest howling.

Ham.
What, the fair Ophelia?

Queen.
Sweets to the sweet: farewell.
[Scattering flowers.]
I hop'd thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife;
I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,
And not have strew'd thy grave.

Laer.
O, treble woe
Fall ten times treble on that cursed head
Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
Depriv'd thee of!--Hold off the earth awhile,
Till I have caught her once more in mine arms:
[Leaps into the grave.]
Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead,
Till of this flat a mountain you have made,
To o'ertop old Pelion or the skyish head
Of blue Olympus.

Ham.
[Advancing.]
What is he whose grief
Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
Conjures the wandering stars, and makes them stand
Like wonder-wounded hearers? this is I,
Hamlet the Dane.
[Leaps into the grave.]

Laer.
The devil take thy soul!
[Grappling with him.]

Ham.
Thou pray'st not well.
I pr'ythee, take thy fingers from my throat;
For, though I am not splenetive and rash,
Yet have I in me something dangerous,
Which let thy wiseness fear: away thy hand!

King.
Pluck them asunder.

Queen.
Hamlet! Hamlet!

All.
Gentlemen!--

Hor.
Good my lord, be quiet.

[The Attendants part them, and they come out of the grave.]

Ham.
Why, I will fight with him upon this theme
Until my eyelids will no longer wag.

Queen.
O my son, what theme?

Ham.
I lov'd Ophelia; forty thousand brothers
Could not, with all their quantity of love,
Make up my sum.--What wilt thou do for her?

King.
O, he is mad, Laertes.

Queen.
For love of God, forbear him!

Ham.
'Swounds, show me what thou'lt do:
Woul't weep? woul't fight? woul't fast? woul't tear thyself?
Woul't drink up eisel? eat a crocodile?
I'll do't.--Dost thou come here to whine?
To outface me with leaping in her grave?
Be buried quick with her, and so will I:
And, if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
Millions of acres on us, till our ground,
Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
Make Ossa like a wart! Nay, an thou'lt mouth,
I'll rant as well as thou.

Queen.
This is mere madness:
And thus a while the fit will work on him;
Anon, as patient as the female dove,
When that her golden couplets are disclos'd,
His silence will sit drooping.

Ham.
Hear you, sir;
What is the reason that you use me thus?
I lov'd you ever: but it is no matter;
Let Hercules himself do what he may,
The cat will mew, and dog will have his day.

[Exit.]

King.
I pray thee, good Horatio, wait upon him.--

[Exit Horatio.]
[To Laertes]
Strengthen your patience in our last night's speech;
We'll put the matter to the present push.--
Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son.--
This grave shall have a living monument:
An hour of quiet shortly shall we see;
Till then in patience our proceeding be.

[Exeunt.]



Scene II. A hall in the Castle.

[Enter Hamlet and Horatio.]

Ham.
So much for this, sir: now let me see the other;
You do remember all the circumstance?

Hor.
Remember it, my lord!

Ham.
Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting
That would not let me sleep: methought I lay
Worse than the mutinies in the bilboes. Rashly,
And prais'd be rashness for it,--let us know,
Our indiscretion sometime serves us well,
When our deep plots do fail; and that should teach us
There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
Rough-hew them how we will.

Hor.
That is most certain.

Ham.
Up from my cabin,
My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
Grop'd I to find out them: had my desire;
Finger'd their packet; and, in fine, withdrew
To mine own room again: making so bold,
My fears forgetting manners, to unseal
Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio,
O royal knavery! an exact command,--
Larded with many several sorts of reasons,
Importing Denmark's health, and England's too,
With, ho! such bugs and goblins in my life,--
That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
No, not to stay the grinding of the axe,
My head should be struck off.

Hor.
Is't possible?

Ham.
Here's the commission: read it at more leisure.
But wilt thou bear me how I did proceed?

Hor.
I beseech you.

Ham.
Being thus benetted round with villanies,--
Or I could make a prologue to my brains,
They had begun the play,--I sat me down;
Devis'd a new commission; wrote it fair:
I once did hold it, as our statists do,
A baseness to write fair, and labour'd much
How to forget that learning; but, sir, now
It did me yeoman's service. Wilt thou know
The effect of what I wrote?

Hor.
Ay, good my lord.

Ham.
An earnest conjuration from the king,--
As England was his faithful tributary;
As love between them like the palm might flourish;
As peace should still her wheaten garland wear
And stand a comma 'tween their amities;
And many such-like as's of great charge,--
That, on the view and know of these contents,
Without debatement further, more or less,
He should the bearers put to sudden death,
Not shriving-time allow'd.

Hor.
How was this seal'd?

Ham.
Why, even in that was heaven ordinant.
I had my father's signet in my purse,
Which was the model of that Danish seal:
Folded the writ up in the form of the other;
Subscrib'd it: gave't the impression; plac'd it safely,
The changeling never known. Now, the next day
Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
Thou know'st already.

Hor.
So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to't.

Ham.
Why, man, they did make love to this employment;
They are not near my conscience; their defeat
Does by their own insinuation grow:
'Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes
Between the pass and fell incensed points
Of mighty opposites.

Hor.
Why, what a king is this!

Ham.
Does it not, thinks't thee, stand me now upon,--
He that hath kill'd my king, and whor'd my mother;
Popp'd in between the election and my hopes;
Thrown out his angle for my proper life,
And with such cozenage--is't not perfect conscience
To quit him with this arm? and is't not to be damn'd
To let this canker of our nature come
In further evil?

Hor.
It must be shortly known to him from England
What is the issue of the business there.

Ham.
It will be short: the interim is mine;
And a man's life is no more than to say One.
But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
That to Laertes I forgot myself;
For by the image of my cause I see
The portraiture of his: I'll court his favours:
But, sure, the bravery of his grief did put me
Into a towering passion.

Hor.
Peace; who comes here?

[Enter Osric.]

Osr.
Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark.

Ham.
I humbly thank you, sir. Dost know this water-fly?

Hor.
No, my good lord.

Ham.
Thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a vice to know him. He
hath much land, and fertile: let a beast be lord of beasts, and
his crib shall stand at the king's mess; 'tis a chough; but, as I
say, spacious in the possession of dirt.

Osr.
Sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, I should
impart a thing to you from his majesty.

Ham.
I will receive it with all diligence of spirit. Put your
bonnet to his right use; 'tis for the head.

Osr.
I thank your lordship, t'is very hot.

Ham.
No, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is northerly.

Osr.
It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.

Ham.
Methinks it is very sultry and hot for my complexion.

Osr.
Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry,--as 'twere--I cannot
tell how. But, my lord, his majesty bade me signify to you that
he has laid a great wager on your head. Sir, this is the
matter,--

Ham.
I beseech you, remember,--
[Hamlet moves him to put on his hat.]

Osr.
Nay, in good faith; for mine ease, in good faith. Sir, here
is newly come to court Laertes; believe me, an absolute
gentleman, full of most excellent differences, of very soft
society and great showing: indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he
is the card or calendar of gentry; for you shall find in him the
continent of what part a gentleman would see.

Ham.
Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you;--though, I
know, to divide him inventorially would dizzy the arithmetic of
memory, and yet but yaw neither, in respect of his quick sail.
But, in the verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of great
article, and his infusion of such dearth and rareness as, to make
true diction of him, his semblable is his mirror, and who else
would trace him, his umbrage, nothing more.

Osr.
Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him.

Ham.
The concernancy, sir? why do we wrap the gentleman in our more
rawer breath?

Osr.
Sir?

Hor.
Is't not possible to understand in another tongue? You will do't,
sir, really.

Ham.
What imports the nomination of this gentleman?

Osr.
Of Laertes?

Hor.
His purse is empty already; all's golden words are spent.

Ham.
Of him, sir.

Osr.
I know, you are not ignorant,--

Ham.
I would you did, sir; yet, in faith, if you did, it would not
much approve me.--Well, sir.

Osr.
You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is,--

Ham.
I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with him in
excellence; but to know a man well were to know himself.

Osr.
I mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation laid on
him by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.

Ham.
What's his weapon?

Osr.
Rapier and dagger.

Ham.
That's two of his weapons:--but well.

Osr.
The king, sir, hath wager'd with him six Barbary horses:
against the which he has imponed, as I take it, six French
rapiers and poniards, with their assigns, as girdle, hangers, and
so: three of the carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy,
very responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages, and of
very liberal conceit.

Ham.
What call you the carriages?

Hor.
I knew you must be edified by the margent ere you had done.

Osr.
The carriages, sir, are the hangers.

Ham.
The phrase would be more german to the matter if we could
carry cannon by our sides. I would it might be hangers till then.
But, on: six Barbary horses against six French swords, their
assigns, and three liberal conceited carriages: that's the French
bet against the Danish: why is this all imponed, as you call it?

Osr.
The king, sir, hath laid that, in a dozen passes between
your and him, he shall not exceed you three hits: he hath
laid on twelve for nine; and it would come to immediate trial
if your lordship would vouchsafe the answer.

Ham.
How if I answer no?

Osr.
I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.

Ham.
Sir, I will walk here in the hall: if it please his majesty,
it is the breathing time of day with me: let the foils be
brought, the gentleman willing, and the king hold his purpose,
I will win for him if I can; if not, I will gain nothing but my
shame and the odd hits.

Osr.
Shall I re-deliver you e'en so?

Ham.
To this effect, sir; after what flourish your nature will.

Osr.
I commend my duty to your lordship.

Ham.
Yours, yours.

[Exit Osric.]

He does well to commend it himself; there are no tongues else
for's turn.

Hor.
This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head.

Ham.
He did comply with his dug before he suck'd it. Thus has he,--and
many more of the same bevy that I know the drossy age dotes on,--
only got the tune of the time and outward habit of encounter;
a kind of yesty collection, which carries them through and
through the most fanned and winnowed opinions; and do but blow
them to their trial, the bubbles are out,

[Enter a Lord.]

Lord.
My lord, his majesty commended him to you by young Osric,
who brings back to him that you attend him in the hall: he sends
to know if your pleasure hold to play with Laertes, or that you
will take longer time.

Ham.
I am constant to my purposes; they follow the king's pleasure:
if his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now or whensoever, provided
I be so able as now.

Lord.
The King and Queen and all are coming down.

Ham.
In happy time.

Lord.
The queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to
Laertes before you fall to play.

Ham.
She well instructs me.

[Exit Lord.]

Hor.
You will lose this wager, my lord.

Ham.
I do not think so; since he went into France I have been in
continual practice: I shall win at the odds. But thou wouldst not
think how ill all's here about my heart: but it is no matter.

Hor.
Nay, good my lord,--

Ham.
It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of gain-giving as
would perhaps trouble a woman.

Hor.
If your mind dislike anything, obey it: I will forestall their
repair hither, and say you are not fit.

Ham.
Not a whit, we defy augury: there's a special providence in
the fall of a sparrow. If it be now, 'tis not to come; if it be
not to come, it will be now; if it be not now, yet it will come:
the readiness is all: since no man has aught of what he leaves,
what is't to leave betimes?

[Enter King, Queen, Laertes, Lords, Osric, and Attendants with
foils &c.]

King.
Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.

[The King puts Laertes' hand into Hamlet's.]

Ham.
Give me your pardon, sir: I have done you wrong:
But pardon't, as you are a gentleman.
This presence knows, and you must needs have heard,
How I am punish'd with sore distraction.
What I have done
That might your nature, honour, and exception
Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet:
If Hamlet from himself be ta'en away,
And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it.
Who does it, then? His madness: if't be so,
Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong'd;
His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
Sir, in this audience,
Let my disclaiming from a purpos'd evil
Free me so far in your most generous thoughts
That I have shot my arrow o'er the house
And hurt my brother.

Laer.
I am satisfied in nature,
Whose motive, in this case, should stir me most
To my revenge. But in my terms of honour
I stand aloof; and will no reconcilement
Till by some elder masters of known honour
I have a voice and precedent of peace
To keep my name ungor'd. But till that time
I do receive your offer'd love like love,
And will not wrong it.

Ham.
I embrace it freely;
And will this brother's wager frankly play.--
Give us the foils; come on.

Laer.
Come, one for me.

Ham.
I'll be your foil, Laertes; in mine ignorance
Your skill shall, like a star in the darkest night,
Stick fiery off indeed.

Laer.
You mock me, sir.

Ham.
No, by this hand.

King.
Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
You know the wager?

Ham.
Very well, my lord;
Your grace has laid the odds o' the weaker side.

King.
I do not fear it; I have seen you both;
But since he's better'd, we have therefore odds.

Laer.
This is too heavy, let me see another.

Ham.
This likes me well. These foils have all a length?

[They prepare to play.]

Osr.
Ay, my good lord.

King.
Set me the stoups of wine upon that table,--
If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
Let all the battlements their ordnance fire;
The king shall drink to Hamlet's better breath;
And in the cup an union shall he throw,
Richer than that which four successive kings
In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups;
And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
The trumpet to the cannoneer without,
The cannons to the heavens, the heavens to earth,
'Now the king drinks to Hamlet.'--Come, begin:--
And you, the judges, bear a wary eye.

Ham.
Come on, sir.

Laer.
Come, my lord.

[They play.]

Ham.
One.

Laer.
No.

Ham.
Judgment!

Osr.
A hit, a very palpable hit.

Laer.
Well;--again.

King.
Stay, give me drink.--Hamlet, this pearl is thine;
Here's to thy health.--

[Trumpets sound, and cannon shot off within.]

Give him the cup.

Ham.
I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile.--
Come.--Another hit; what say you?

[They play.]

Laer.
A touch, a touch, I do confess.

King.
Our son shall win.

Queen.
He's fat, and scant of breath.--
Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows:
The queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.

Ham.
Good madam!

King.
Gertrude, do not drink.

Queen.
I will, my lord; I pray you pardon me.

King.
[Aside.] It is the poison'd cup; it is too late.

Ham.
I dare not drink yet, madam; by-and-by.

Queen.
Come, let me wipe thy face.

Laer.
My lord, I'll hit him now.

King.
I do not think't.

Laer.
[Aside.] And yet 'tis almost 'gainst my conscience.

Ham.
Come, for the third, Laertes: you but dally;
I pray you pass with your best violence:
I am afeard you make a wanton of me.

Laer.
Say you so? come on.

[They play.]

Osr.
Nothing, neither way.

Laer.
Have at you now!

[Laertes wounds Hamlet; then, in scuffling, they
change rapiers, and Hamlet wounds Laertes.]

King.
Part them; they are incens'd.

Ham.
Nay, come again!

[The Queen falls.]

Osr.
Look to the queen there, ho!

Hor.
They bleed on both sides.--How is it, my lord?

Osr.
How is't, Laertes?

Laer.
Why, as a woodcock to my own springe, Osric;
I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.

Ham.
How does the Queen?

King.
She swoons to see them bleed.

Queen.
No, no! the drink, the drink!--O my dear Hamlet!--
The drink, the drink!--I am poison'd.

[Dies.]

Ham.
O villany!--Ho! let the door be lock'd:
Treachery! seek it out.

[Laertes falls.]

Laer.
It is here, Hamlet: Hamlet, thou art slain;
No medicine in the world can do thee good;
In thee there is not half an hour of life;
The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
Unbated and envenom'd: the foul practice
Hath turn'd itself on me; lo, here I lie,
Never to rise again: thy mother's poison'd:
I can no more:--the king, the king's to blame.

Ham.
The point envenom'd too!--
Then, venom, to thy work.

[Stabs the King.]

Osric and Lords.
Treason! treason!

King.
O, yet defend me, friends! I am but hurt.

Ham.
Here, thou incestuous, murderous, damned Dane,
Drink off this potion.--Is thy union here?
Follow my mother.

[King dies.]

Laer.
He is justly serv'd;
It is a poison temper'd by himself.--
Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet:
Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
Nor thine on me!

[Dies.]

Ham.
Heaven make thee free of it! I follow thee.--
I am dead, Horatio.--Wretched queen, adieu!--
You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
That are but mutes or audience to this act,
Had I but time,--as this fell sergeant, death,
Is strict in his arrest,--O, I could tell you,--
But let it be.--Horatio, I am dead;
Thou liv'st; report me and my cause aright
To the unsatisfied.

Hor.
Never believe it:
I am more an antique Roman than a Dane.--
Here's yet some liquor left.

Ham.
As thou'rt a man,
Give me the cup; let go; by heaven, I'll have't.--
O good Horatio, what a wounded name,
Things standing thus unknown, shall live behind me!
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart,
Absent thee from felicity awhile,
And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain,
To tell my story.--

[March afar off, and shot within.]

What warlike noise is this?

Osr.
Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
To the ambassadors of England gives
This warlike volley.

Ham.
O, I die, Horatio;
The potent poison quite o'er-crows my spirit:
I cannot live to hear the news from England;
But I do prophesy the election lights
On Fortinbras: he has my dying voice;
So tell him, with the occurrents, more and less,
Which have solicited.--the rest is silence.

[Dies.]

Hor.
Now cracks a noble heart.--Good night, sweet prince,
And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
Why does the drum come hither?

[March within.]

[Enter Fortinbras, the English Ambassadors, and others.]

Fort.
Where is this sight?

Hor.
What is it you will see?
If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.

Fort.
This quarry cries on havoc.--O proud death,
What feast is toward in thine eternal cell,
That thou so many princes at a shot
So bloodily hast struck?

1 Ambassador.
The sight is dismal;
And our affairs from England come too late:
The ears are senseless that should give us hearing,
To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd
That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead:
Where should we have our thanks?

Hor.
Not from his mouth,
Had it the ability of life to thank you:
He never gave commandment for their death.
But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
Are here arriv'd, give order that these bodies
High on a stage be placed to the view;
And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
How these things came about: so shall you hear
Of carnal, bloody and unnatural acts;
Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters;
Of deaths put on by cunning and forc'd cause;
And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
Fall'n on the inventors' heads: all this can I
Truly deliver.

Fort.
Let us haste to hear it,
And call the noblest to the audience.
For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune:
I have some rights of memory in this kingdom,
Which now, to claim my vantage doth invite me.

Hor.
Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more:
But let this same be presently perform'd,
Even while men's minds are wild: lest more mischance
On plots and errors happen.

Fort.
Let four captains
Bear Hamlet like a soldier to the stage;
For he was likely, had he been put on,
To have prov'd most royally: and, for his passage,
The soldiers' music and the rites of war
Speak loudly for him.--
Take up the bodies.--Such a sight as this
Becomes the field, but here shows much amiss.
Go, bid the soldiers shoot.

[A dead march.]

[Exeunt, bearing off the dead bodies; after the which a peal of
ordnance is shot off.]





The End of Project Gutenberg Etext of Hamlet by Shakespeare
PG has multiple editions of William Shakespeare's Complete Works


Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the bank, and of having nothing to do: once or twice she had peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no pictures or conversations in it, and what is the use of a book, thought Alice without pictures or conversations?
So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could, for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her.
There was nothing so very remarkable in that; nor did Alice think it so very much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself, Oh dear! Oh dear! I shall be late! (when she thought it over afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought to have wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed quite natural); but when the Rabbit actually took a watch out of its waistcoat-pocket, and looked at it, and then hurried on, Alice started to her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge.
In another moment down went Alice after it, never once considering how in the world she was to get out again.
The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way, and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself falling down a very deep well.
Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to wonder what was going to happen next. First, she tried to look down and make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to see anything; then she looked at the sides of the well, and noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves; here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs. She took down a jar from one of the shelves as she passed; it was labelled ORANGE MARMALADE', but to her great disappointment it was empty: she did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing somebody, so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she fell past it.
Well! thought Alice to herself, after such a fall as this, I shall think nothing of tumbling down stairs! How brave they'll all think me at home! Why, I wouldn't say anything about it, even if I fell off the top of the house! (Which was very likely true.)
Down, down, down. Would the fall never come to an end! I wonder how many miles I've fallen by this time? she said aloud. I must be getting somewhere near the centre of the earth. Let me see: that would be four thousand miles down, I think— (for, you see, Alice had learnt several things of this sort in her lessons in the schoolroom, and though this was not a very good opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as there was no one to listen to her, still it was good practice to say it over) —yes, that's about the right distance—but then I wonder what Latitude or Longitude I've got to? (Alice had no idea what Latitude was, or Longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to say.)
Presently she began again. I wonder if I shall fall right through the earth! How funny it'll seem to come out among the people that walk with their heads downward! The Antipathies, I think— (she was rather glad there was no one listening, this time, as it didn't sound at all the right word) —but I shall have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know. Please, Ma'am, is this New Zealand or Australia? (and she tried to curtsey as she spoke—fancy curtseying as you're falling through the air! Do you think you could manage it?) And what an ignorant little girl she'll think me for asking! No, it'll never do to ask: perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere.
Down, down, down. There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon began talking again. Dinah'll miss me very much to-night, I should think! (Dinah was the cat.) I hope they'll remember her saucer of milk at tea-time. Dinah my dear! I wish you were down here with me! There are no mice in the air, I'm afraid, but you might catch a bat, and that's very like a mouse, you know. But do cats eat bats, I wonder? And here Alice began to get rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy sort of way, Do cats eat bats? Do cats eat bats? and sometimes, Do bats eat cats? for, you see, as she couldn't answer either question, it didn't much matter which way she put it. She felt that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very earnestly, Now, Dinah, tell me the truth: did you ever eat a bat? when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.
Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a moment: she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in sight, hurrying down it. There was not a moment to be lost: away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it say, as it turned a corner, Oh my ears and whiskers, how late it's getting! She was close behind it when she turned the corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen: she found herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging from the roof.
There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked; and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle, wondering how she was ever to get out again.
Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of solid glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key, and Alice's first thought was that it might belong to one of the doors of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too large, or the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of them. However, on the second time round, she came upon a low curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a little door about fifteen inches high: she tried the little golden key in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!
Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small passage, not much larger than a rat-hole: she knelt down and looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw. How she longed to get out of that dark hall, and wander about among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains, but she could not even get her head through the doorway; and even if my head would go through, thought poor Alice, it would be of very little use without my shoulders. Oh, how I wish I could shut up like a telescope! I think I could, if I only knew how to begin. For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things had happened lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few things indeed were really impossible.
There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she went back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like telescopes: this time she found a little bottle on it, ('which certainly was not here before, said Alice,) and round the neck of the bottle was a paper label, with the words DRINK ME beautifully printed on it in large letters.
It was all very well to say Drink me, but the wise little Alice was not going to do that in a hurry. No, I'll look first, she said, and see whether it's marked "poison" or not'; for she had read several nice little histories about children who had got burnt, and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant things, all because they would not remember the simple rules their friends had taught them: such as, that a red-hot poker will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your finger very deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and she had never forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked poison, it is almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or later.
However, this bottle was not marked poison, so Alice ventured to taste it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort of mixed flavour of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast,) she very soon finished it off.
  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *
What a curious feeling! said Alice; I must be shutting up like a telescope.
And so it was indeed: she was now only ten inches high, and her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right size for going through the little door into that lovely garden. First, however, she waited for a few minutes to see if she was going to shrink any further: she felt a little nervous about this; for it might end, you know, said Alice to herself, in my going out altogether, like a candle. I wonder what I should be like then? And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is like after the candle is blown out, for she could not remember ever having seen such a thing.
After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when she got to the door, she found she had forgotten the little golden key, and when she went back to the table for it, she found she could not possibly reach it: she could see it quite plainly through the glass, and she tried her best to climb up one of the legs of the table, but it was too slippery; and when she had tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing sat down and cried.
Come, there's no use in crying like that! said Alice to herself, rather sharply; I advise you to leave off this minute! She generally gave herself very good advice, (though she very seldom followed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to bring tears into her eyes; and once she remembered trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious child was very fond of pretending to be two people. But it's no use now, thought poor Alice, to pretend to be two people! Why, there's hardly enough of me left to make one respectable person!
Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under the table: she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on which the words EAT ME were beautifully marked in currants. Well, I'll eat it, said Alice, and if it makes me grow larger, I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep under the door; so either way I'll get into the garden, and I don't care which happens!
She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, Which way? Which way?', holding her hand on the top of her head to feel which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to find that she remained the same size: to be sure, this generally happens when one eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen, that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the common way.
So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.





Curiouser and curiouser! cried Alice (she was so much surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good English); now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that ever was! Good-bye, feet! (for when she looked down at her feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so far off). Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on your shoes and stockings for you now, dears? I'm sure I shan't be able! I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself about you: you must manage the best way you can;—but I must be kind to them, thought Alice, or perhaps they won't walk the way I want to go! Let me see: I'll give them a new pair of boots every Christmas.
And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it. They must go by the carrier, she thought; and how funny it'll seem, sending presents to one's own feet! And how odd the directions will look!
     Alice's Right Foot, Esq.
       Hearthrug,
         near The Fender,
           (with Alice's love).
Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!
Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall: in fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.
Poor Alice! It was as much as she could do, lying down on one side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get through was more hopeless than ever: she sat down and began to cry again.
You ought to be ashamed of yourself, said Alice, a great girl like you, (she might well say this), to go on crying in this way! Stop this moment, I tell you! But she went on all the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the hall.
After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming. It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the other: he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to himself as he came, Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she be savage if I've kept her waiting! Alice felt so desperate that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, If you please, sir— The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard as he could go.
Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking: Dear, dear! How queer everything is to-day! And yesterday things went on just as usual. I wonder if I've been changed in the night? Let me think: was I the same when I got up this morning? I almost think I can remember feeling a little different. But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in the world am I? Ah, that's the great puzzle! And she began thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of them.
I'm sure I'm not Ada, she said, for her hair goes in such long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm sure I can't be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she, oh! she knows such a very little! Besides, she's she, and I'm I, and—oh dear, how puzzling it all is! I'll try if I know all the things I used to know. Let me see: four times five is twelve, and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is—oh dear! I shall never get to twenty at that rate! However, the Multiplication Table doesn't signify: let's try Geography. London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome, and Rome—no, that's all wrong, I'm certain! I must have been changed for Mabel! I'll try and say "How doth the little—" and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons, and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:—
     How doth the little crocodile
      Improve his shining tail,
     And pour the waters of the Nile
      On every golden scale!

     How cheerfully he seems to grin,
      How neatly spread his claws,
     And welcome little fishes in
      With gently smiling jaws!
I'm sure those are not the right words, said poor Alice, and her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, I must be Mabel after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so many lessons to learn! No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm Mabel, I'll stay down here! It'll be no use their putting their heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!" I shall only look up and say "Who am I then? Tell me that first, and then, if I like being that person, I'll come up: if not, I'll stay down here till I'm somebody else"—but, oh dear! cried Alice, with a sudden burst of tears, I do wish they would put their heads down! I am so very tired of being all alone here!
As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little white kid gloves while she was talking. How can I have done that? she thought. I must be growing small again. She got up and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that, as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high, and was going on shrinking rapidly: she soon found out that the cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.
That was a narrow escape! said Alice, a good deal frightened at the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in existence; and now for the garden! and she ran with all speed back to the little door: but, alas! the little door was shut again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as before, and things are worse than ever, thought the poor child, for I never was so small as this before, never! And I declare it's too bad, that it is!
As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water. Her first idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, and in that case I can go back by railway, she said to herself. (Alice had been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you find a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and behind them a railway station.) However, she soon made out that she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine feet high.
I wish I hadn't cried so much! said Alice, as she swam about, trying to find her way out. I shall be punished for it now, I suppose, by being drowned in my own tears! That will be a queer thing, to be sure! However, everything is queer to-day.
Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was: at first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.
Would it be of any use, now, thought Alice, to speak to this mouse? Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should think very likely it can talk: at any rate, there's no harm in trying. So she began: O Mouse, do you know the way out of this pool? I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse! (Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse: she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having seen in her brother's Latin Grammar, A mouse—of a mouse—to a mouse—a mouse—O mouse!') The Mouse looked at her rather inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little eyes, but it said nothing.
Perhaps it doesn't understand English, thought Alice; I daresay it's a French mouse, come over with William the Conqueror. (For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened.) So she began again: Ou est ma chatte? which was the first sentence in her French lesson-book. The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright. Oh, I beg your pardon! cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the poor animal's feelings. I quite forgot you didn't like cats.
Not like cats! cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate voice. Would you like cats if you were me?
Well, perhaps not, said Alice in a soothing tone: don't be angry about it. And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah: I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her. She is such a dear quiet thing, Alice went on, half to herself, as she swam lazily about in the pool, and she sits purring so nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face—and she is such a nice soft thing to nurse—and she's such a capital one for catching mice—oh, I beg your pardon! cried Alice again, for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt certain it must be really offended. We won't talk about her any more if you'd rather not.
We indeed! cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end of his tail. As if I would talk on such a subject! Our family always hated cats: nasty, low, vulgar things! Don't let me hear the name again!
I won't indeed! said Alice, in a great hurry to change the subject of conversation. Are you—are you fond—of—of dogs? The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly: There is such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you! A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly brown hair! And it'll fetch things when you throw them, and it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things—I can't remember half of them—and it belongs to a farmer, you know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds! He says it kills all the rats and—oh dear! cried Alice in a sorrowful tone, I'm afraid I've offended it again! For the Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.
So she called softly after it, Mouse dear! Do come back again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't like them! When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam slowly back to her: its face was quite pale (with passion, Alice thought), and it said in a low trembling voice, Let us get to the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.
It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded with the birds and animals that had fallen into it: there were a Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious creatures. Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the shore.


They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the bank—the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and uncomfortable.
The first question of course was, how to get dry again: they had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with them, as if she had known them all her life. Indeed, she had quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky, and would only say, I am older than you, and must know better'; and this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was, and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no more to be said.
At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among them, called out, Sit down, all of you, and listen to me! I'll soon make you dry enough! They all sat down at once, in a large ring, with the Mouse in the middle. Alice kept her eyes anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad cold if she did not get dry very soon.
Ahem! said the Mouse with an important air, are you all ready? This is the driest thing I know. Silence all round, if you please! "William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest. Edwin and Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria—"
Ugh! said the Lory, with a shiver.
I beg your pardon! said the Mouse, frowning, but very politely: Did you speak?
Not I! said the Lory hastily.
I thought you did, said the Mouse. —I proceed. "Edwin and Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him: and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found it advisable—"
Found what? said the Duck.
Found it, the Mouse replied rather crossly: of course you know what "it" means.
I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing, said the Duck: it's generally a frog or a worm. The question is, what did the archbishop find?
The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on, "—found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William and offer him the crown. William's conduct at first was moderate. But the insolence of his Normans—" How are you getting on now, my dear? it continued, turning to Alice as it spoke.
As wet as ever, said Alice in a melancholy tone: it doesn't seem to dry me at all.
In that case, said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, I move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more energetic remedies—
Speak English! said the Eaglet. I don't know the meaning of half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do either! And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile: some of the other birds tittered audibly.
What I was going to say, said the Dodo in an offended tone, was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.
What is a Caucus-race? said Alice; not that she wanted much to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that somebody ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.
Why, said the Dodo, the best way to explain it is to do it. (And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)
First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, ('the exact shape doesn't matter, it said,) and then all the party were placed along the course, here and there. There was no One, two, three, and away, but they began running when they liked, and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know when the race was over. However, when they had been running half an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called out The race is over! and they all crowded round it, panting, and asking, But who has won?
This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare, in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence. At last the Dodo said, Everybody has won, and all must have prizes.
But who is to give the prizes? quite a chorus of voices asked.
Why, she, of course, said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her, calling out in a confused way, Prizes! Prizes!
Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes. There was exactly one a-piece all round.
But she must have a prize herself, you know, said the Mouse.
Of course, the Dodo replied very gravely. What else have you got in your pocket? he went on, turning to Alice.
Only a thimble, said Alice sadly.
Hand it over here, said the Dodo.
Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo solemnly presented the thimble, saying We beg your acceptance of this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short speech, they all cheered.
Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble, looking as solemn as she could.
The next thing was to eat the comfits: this caused some noise and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on the back. However, it was over at last, and they sat down again in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.
You promised to tell me your history, you know, said Alice, and why it is you hate—C and D, she added in a whisper, half afraid that it would be offended again.
Mine is a long and a sad tale! said the Mouse, turning to Alice, and sighing.
It is a long tail, certainly, said Alice, looking down with wonder at the Mouse's tail; but why do you call it sad? And she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so that her idea of the tale was something like this:—
         Fury said to a
         mouse, That he
        met in the
       house,
     "Let us
      both go to
       law: I will
        prosecute
         you.—Come,
           I'll take no
           denial; We
          must have a
        trial: For
      really this
     morning I've
    nothing
    to do."
     Said the
      mouse to the
       cur, "Such
        a trial,
         dear Sir,
            With
          no jury
        or judge,
       would be
      wasting
      our
      breath."
       "I'll be
        judge, I'll
         be jury,"
            Said
         cunning
          old Fury:
          "I'll
          try the
            whole
            cause,
              and
           condemn
           you
          to
           death."
You are not attending! said the Mouse to Alice severely. What are you thinking of?
I beg your pardon, said Alice very humbly: you had got to the fifth bend, I think?
I had not! cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.
A knot! said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and looking anxiously about her. Oh, do let me help to undo it!
I shall do nothing of the sort, said the Mouse, getting up and walking away. You insult me by talking such nonsense!
I didn't mean it! pleaded poor Alice. But you're so easily offended, you know!
The Mouse only growled in reply.
Please come back and finish your story! Alice called after it; and the others all joined in chorus, Yes, please do! but the Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little quicker.
What a pity it wouldn't stay! sighed the Lory, as soon as it was quite out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of saying to her daughter Ah, my dear! Let this be a lesson to you never to lose your temper! Hold your tongue, Ma! said the young Crab, a little snappishly. You're enough to try the patience of an oyster!
I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do! said Alice aloud, addressing nobody in particular. She'd soon fetch it back!
And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question? said the Lory.
Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about her pet: Dinah's our cat. And she's such a capital one for catching mice you can't think! And oh, I wish you could see her after the birds! Why, she'll eat a little bird as soon as look at it!
This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party. Some of the birds hurried off at once: one old Magpie began wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking, I really must be getting home; the night-air doesn't suit my throat! and a Canary called out in a trembling voice to its children, Come away, my dears! It's high time you were all in bed! On various pretexts they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.
I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah! she said to herself in a melancholy tone. Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I'm sure she's the best cat in the world! Oh, my dear Dinah! I wonder if I shall ever see you any more! And here poor Alice began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited. In a little while, however, she again heard a little pattering of footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming back to finish his story.


It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something; and she heard it muttering to itself The Duchess! The Duchess! Oh my dear paws! Oh my fur and whiskers! She'll get me executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets! Where can I have dropped them, I wonder? Alice guessed in a moment that it was looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were nowhere to be seen—everything seemed to have changed since her swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and the little door, had vanished completely.
Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about, and called out to her in an angry tone, Why, Mary Ann, what are you doing out here? Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of gloves and a fan! Quick, now! And Alice was so much frightened that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without trying to explain the mistake it had made.
He took me for his housemaid, she said to herself as she ran. How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am! But I'd better take him his fan and gloves—that is, if I can find them. As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door of which was a bright brass plate with the name W. RABBIT engraved upon it. She went in without knocking, and hurried upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann, and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and gloves.
How queer it seems, Alice said to herself, to be going messages for a rabbit! I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on messages next! And she began fancying the sort of thing that would happen: "Miss Alice! Come here directly, and get ready for your walk!" "Coming in a minute, nurse! But I've got to see that the mouse doesn't get out." Only I don't think, Alice went on, that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering people about like that!
By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with a table in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves: she took up the fan and a pair of the gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking-glass. There was no label this time with the words DRINK ME, but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips. I know something interesting is sure to happen, she said to herself, whenever I eat or drink anything; so I'll just see what this bottle does. I do hope it'll make me grow large again, for really I'm quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!
It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected: before she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being broken. She hastily put down the bottle, saying to herself That's quite enough—I hope I shan't grow any more—As it is, I can't get out at the door—I do wish I hadn't drunk quite so much!
Alas! it was too late to wish that! She went on growing, and growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor: in another minute there was not even room for this, and she tried the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the other arm curled round her head. Still she went on growing, and, as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, and one foot up the chimney, and said to herself Now I can do no more, whatever happens. What will become of me?
Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full effect, and she grew no larger: still it was very uncomfortable, and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy.
It was much pleasanter at home, thought poor Alice, when one wasn't always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about by mice and rabbits. I almost wish I hadn't gone down that rabbit-hole—and yet—and yet—it's rather curious, you know, this sort of life! I do wonder what can have happened to me! When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one! There ought to be a book written about me, that there ought! And when I grow up, I'll write one—but I'm grown up now, she added in a sorrowful tone; at least there's no room to grow up any more here.
But then, thought Alice, shall I never get any older than I am now? That'll be a comfort, one way—never to be an old woman—but then—always to have lessons to learn! Oh, I shouldn't like that!
Oh, you foolish Alice! she answered herself. How can you learn lessons in here? Why, there's hardly room for you, and no room at all for any lesson-books!
And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other, and making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few minutes she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.
Mary Ann! Mary Ann! said the voice. Fetch me my gloves this moment! Then came a little pattering of feet on the stairs. Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her, and she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting that she was now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit, and had no reason to be afraid of it.
Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it; but, as the door opened inwards, and Alice's elbow was pressed hard against it, that attempt proved a failure. Alice heard it say to itself Then I'll go round and get in at the window.
That you won't thought Alice, and, after waiting till she fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air. She did not get hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek and a fall, and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded that it was just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or something of the sort.
Next came an angry voice—the Rabbit's—'Pat! Pat! Where are you? And then a voice she had never heard before, Sure then I'm here! Digging for apples, yer honour!
Digging for apples, indeed! said the Rabbit angrily. Here! Come and help me out of this! (Sounds of more broken glass.)
Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?
Sure, it's an arm, yer honour! (He pronounced it arrum.')
An arm, you goose! Who ever saw one that size? Why, it fills the whole window!
Sure, it does, yer honour: but it's an arm for all that.
Well, it's got no business there, at any rate: go and take it away!
There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear whispers now and then; such as, Sure, I don't like it, yer honour, at all, at all! Do as I tell you, you coward! and at last she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in the air. This time there were two little shrieks, and more sounds of broken glass. What a number of cucumber-frames there must be! thought Alice. I wonder what they'll do next! As for pulling me out of the window, I only wish they could! I'm sure I don't want to stay in here any longer!
She waited for some time without hearing anything more: at last came a rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a good many voices all talking together: she made out the words: Where's the other ladder?—Why, I hadn't to bring but one; Bill's got the other—Bill! fetch it here, lad!—Here, put em up at this corner—No, tie em together first—they don't reach half high enough yet—Oh! they'll do well enough; don't be particular—Here, Bill! catch hold of this rope—Will the roof bear?—Mind that loose slate—Oh, it's coming down! Heads below! (a loud crash)—'Now, who did that?—It was Bill, I fancy—Who's to go down the chimney?—Nay, I shan't! You do it!—That I won't, then!—Bill's to go down—Here, Bill! the master says you're to go down the chimney!
Oh! So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he? said Alice to herself. Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill! I wouldn't be in Bill's place for a good deal: this fireplace is narrow, to be sure; but I think I can kick a little!
She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and waited till she heard a little animal (she couldn't guess of what sort it was) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close above her: then, saying to herself This is Bill, she gave one sharp kick, and waited to see what would happen next.
The first thing she heard was a general chorus of There goes Bill! then the Rabbit's voice along—'Catch him, you by the hedge! then silence, and then another confusion of voices—'Hold up his head—Brandy now—Don't choke him—How was it, old fellow? What happened to you? Tell us all about it!
Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, ('That's Bill, thought Alice,) Well, I hardly know—No more, thank ye; I'm better now—but I'm a deal too flustered to tell you—all I know is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes like a sky-rocket!
So you did, old fellow! said the others.
We must burn the house down! said the Rabbit's voice; and Alice called out as loud as she could, If you do. I'll set Dinah at you!
There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to herself, I wonder what they will do next! If they had any sense, they'd take the roof off. After a minute or two, they began moving about again, and Alice heard the Rabbit say, A barrowful will do, to begin with.
A barrowful of what? thought Alice; but she had not long to doubt, for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came rattling in at the window, and some of them hit her in the face. I'll put a stop to this, she said to herself, and shouted out, You'd better not do that again! which produced another dead silence.
Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright idea came into her head. If I eat one of these cakes, she thought, it's sure to make some change in my size; and as it can't possibly make me larger, it must make me smaller, I suppose.
So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find that she began shrinking directly. As soon as she was small enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house, and found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside. The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle. They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared; but she ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself safe in a thick wood.
The first thing I've got to do, said Alice to herself, as she wandered about in the wood, is to grow to my right size again; and the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden. I think that will be the best plan.
It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and simply arranged; the only difficulty was, that she had not the smallest idea how to set about it; and while she was peering about anxiously among the trees, a little sharp bark just over her head made her look up in a great hurry.
An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round eyes, and feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her. Poor little thing! said Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she tried hard to whistle to it; but she was terribly frightened all the time at the thought that it might be hungry, in which case it would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coaxing.
Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of stick, and held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped into the air off all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight, and rushed at the stick, and made believe to worry it; then Alice dodged behind a great thistle, to keep herself from being run over; and the moment she appeared on the other side, the puppy made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head over heels in its hurry to get hold of it; then Alice, thinking it was very like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle again; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the stick, running a very little way forwards each time and a long way back, and barking hoarsely all the while, till at last it sat down a good way off, panting, with its tongue hanging out of its mouth, and its great eyes half shut.
This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape; so she set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out of breath, and till the puppy's bark sounded quite faint in the distance.
And yet what a dear little puppy it was! said Alice, as she leant against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself with one of the leaves: I should have liked teaching it tricks very much, if—if I'd only been the right size to do it! Oh dear! I'd nearly forgotten that I've got to grow up again! Let me see—how is it to be managed? I suppose I ought to eat or drink something or other; but the great question is, what?
The great question certainly was, what? Alice looked all round her at the flowers and the blades of grass, but she did not see anything that looked like the right thing to eat or drink under the circumstances. There was a large mushroom growing near her, about the same height as herself; and when she had looked under it, and on both sides of it, and behind it, it occurred to her that she might as well look and see what was on the top of it.
She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of the mushroom, and her eyes immediately met those of a large caterpillar, that was sitting on the top with its arms folded, quietly smoking a long hookah, and taking not the smallest notice of her or of anything else.


The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in silence: at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth, and addressed her in a languid, sleepy voice.
Who are you? said the Caterpillar.
This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation. Alice replied, rather shyly, I—I hardly know, sir, just at present—at least I know who I was when I got up this morning, but I think I must have been changed several times since then.
What do you mean by that? said the Caterpillar sternly. Explain yourself!
I can't explain myself, I'm afraid, sir said Alice, because I'm not myself, you see.
I don't see, said the Caterpillar.
I'm afraid I can't put it more clearly, Alice replied very politely, for I can't understand it myself to begin with; and being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing.
It isn't, said the Caterpillar.
Well, perhaps you haven't found it so yet, said Alice; but when you have to turn into a chrysalis—you will some day, you know—and then after that into a butterfly, I should think you'll feel it a little queer, won't you?
Not a bit, said the Caterpillar.
Well, perhaps your feelings may be different, said Alice; all I know is, it would feel very queer to me.
You! said the Caterpillar contemptuously. Who are you?
Which brought them back again to the beginning of the conversation. Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar's making such very short remarks, and she drew herself up and said, very gravely, I think, you ought to tell me who you are, first.
Why? said the Caterpillar.
Here was another puzzling question; and as Alice could not think of any good reason, and as the Caterpillar seemed to be in a very unpleasant state of mind, she turned away.
Come back! the Caterpillar called after her. I've something important to say!
This sounded promising, certainly: Alice turned and came back again.
Keep your temper, said the Caterpillar.
Is that all? said Alice, swallowing down her anger as well as she could.
No, said the Caterpillar.
Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else to do, and perhaps after all it might tell her something worth hearing. For some minutes it puffed away without speaking, but at last it unfolded its arms, took the hookah out of its mouth again, and said, So you think you're changed, do you?
I'm afraid I am, sir, said Alice; I can't remember things as I used—and I don't keep the same size for ten minutes together!
Can't remember what things? said the Caterpillar.
Well, I've tried to say "How doth the little busy bee," but it all came different! Alice replied in a very melancholy voice.
Repeat, "You are old, Father William," said the Caterpillar.
Alice folded her hands, and began:—
   You are old, Father William, the young man said,
    And your hair has become very white;
   And yet you incessantly stand on your head—
    Do you think, at your age, it is right?

   In my youth, Father William replied to his son,
    I feared it might injure the brain;
   But, now that I'm perfectly sure I have none,
    Why, I do it again and again.

   You are old, said the youth, as I mentioned before,
    And have grown most uncommonly fat;
   Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door—
    Pray, what is the reason of that?

   In my youth, said the sage, as he shook his grey locks,
    I kept all my limbs very supple
   By the use of this ointment—one shilling the box—
    Allow me to sell you a couple?

   You are old, said the youth, and your jaws are too weak
    For anything tougher than suet;
   Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak—
    Pray how did you manage to do it?

   In my youth, said his father, I took to the law,
    And argued each case with my wife;
   And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw,
    Has lasted the rest of my life.

   You are old, said the youth, one would hardly suppose
    That your eye was as steady as ever;
   Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose—
    What made you so awfully clever?

   I have answered three questions, and that is enough,
    Said his father; don't give yourself airs!
   Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff?
    Be off, or I'll kick you down stairs!
That is not said right, said the Caterpillar.
Not quite right, I'm afraid, said Alice, timidly; some of the words have got altered.
It is wrong from beginning to end, said the Caterpillar decidedly, and there was silence for some minutes.
The Caterpillar was the first to speak.
What size do you want to be? it asked.
Oh, I'm not particular as to size, Alice hastily replied; only one doesn't like changing so often, you know.
I don't know, said the Caterpillar.
Alice said nothing: she had never been so much contradicted in her life before, and she felt that she was losing her temper.
Are you content now? said the Caterpillar.
Well, I should like to be a little larger, sir, if you wouldn't mind, said Alice: three inches is such a wretched height to be.
It is a very good height indeed! said the Caterpillar angrily, rearing itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three inches high).
But I'm not used to it! pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone. And she thought of herself, I wish the creatures wouldn't be so easily offended!
You'll get used to it in time, said the Caterpillar; and it put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again.
This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again. In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and yawned once or twice, and shook itself. Then it got down off the mushroom, and crawled away in the grass, merely remarking as it went, One side will make you grow taller, and the other side will make you grow shorter.
One side of what? The other side of what? thought Alice to herself.
Of the mushroom, said the Caterpillar, just as if she had asked it aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight.
Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a minute, trying to make out which were the two sides of it; and as it was perfectly round, she found this a very difficult question. However, at last she stretched her arms round it as far as they would go, and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand.
And now which is which? she said to herself, and nibbled a little of the right-hand bit to try the effect: the next moment she felt a violent blow underneath her chin: it had struck her foot!
She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but she felt that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking rapidly; so she set to work at once to eat some of the other bit. Her chin was pressed so closely against her foot, that there was hardly room to open her mouth; but she did it at last, and managed to swallow a morsel of the lefthand bit.
  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *
Come, my head's free at last! said Alice in a tone of delight, which changed into alarm in another moment, when she found that her shoulders were nowhere to be found: all she could see, when she looked down, was an immense length of neck, which seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay far below her.
What can all that green stuff be? said Alice. And where have my shoulders got to? And oh, my poor hands, how is it I can't see you? She was moving them about as she spoke, but no result seemed to follow, except a little shaking among the distant green leaves.
As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her head, she tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted to find that her neck would bend about easily in any direction, like a serpent. She had just succeeded in curving it down into a graceful zigzag, and was going to dive in among the leaves, which she found to be nothing but the tops of the trees under which she had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made her draw back in a hurry: a large pigeon had flown into her face, and was beating her violently with its wings.
Serpent! screamed the Pigeon.
I'm not a serpent! said Alice indignantly. Let me alone!
Serpent, I say again! repeated the Pigeon, but in a more subdued tone, and added with a kind of sob, I've tried every way, and nothing seems to suit them!
I haven't the least idea what you're talking about, said Alice.
I've tried the roots of trees, and I've tried banks, and I've tried hedges, the Pigeon went on, without attending to her; but those serpents! There's no pleasing them!
Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no use in saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished.
As if it wasn't trouble enough hatching the eggs, said the Pigeon; but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and day! Why, I haven't had a wink of sleep these three weeks!
I'm very sorry you've been annoyed, said Alice, who was beginning to see its meaning.
And just as I'd taken the highest tree in the wood, continued the Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, and just as I was thinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come wriggling down from the sky! Ugh, Serpent!
But I'm not a serpent, I tell you! said Alice. I'm a—I'm a—
Well! What are you? said the Pigeon. I can see you're trying to invent something!
I—I'm a little girl, said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she remembered the number of changes she had gone through that day.
A likely story indeed! said the Pigeon in a tone of the deepest contempt. I've seen a good many little girls in my time, but never one with such a neck as that! No, no! You're a serpent; and there's no use denying it. I suppose you'll be telling me next that you never tasted an egg!
I have tasted eggs, certainly, said Alice, who was a very truthful child; but little girls eat eggs quite as much as serpents do, you know.
I don't believe it, said the Pigeon; but if they do, why then they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say.
This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of adding, You're looking for eggs, I know that well enough; and what does it matter to me whether you're a little girl or a serpent?
It matters a good deal to me, said Alice hastily; but I'm not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't want yours: I don't like them raw.
Well, be off, then! said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it settled down again into its nest. Alice crouched down among the trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and untwist it. After a while she remembered that she still held the pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to work very carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.
It was so long since she had been anything near the right size, that it felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a few minutes, and began talking to herself, as usual. Come, there's half my plan done now! How puzzling all these changes are! I'm never sure what I'm going to be, from one minute to another! However, I've got back to my right size: the next thing is, to get into that beautiful garden—how is that to be done, I wonder? As she said this, she came suddenly upon an open place, with a little house in it about four feet high. Whoever lives there, thought Alice, it'll never do to come upon them this size: why, I should frighten them out of their wits! So she began nibbling at the righthand bit again, and did not venture to go near the house till she had brought herself down to nine inches high.


For a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and wondering what to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came running out of the wood—(she considered him to be a footman because he was in livery: otherwise, judging by his face only, she would have called him a fish)—and rapped loudly at the door with his knuckles. It was opened by another footman in livery, with a round face, and large eyes like a frog; and both footmen, Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled all over their heads. She felt very curious to know what it was all about, and crept a little way out of the wood to listen.
The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great letter, nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to the other, saying, in a solemn tone, For the Duchess. An invitation from the Queen to play croquet. The Frog-Footman repeated, in the same solemn tone, only changing the order of the words a little, From the Queen. An invitation for the Duchess to play croquet.
Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled together.
Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into the wood for fear of their hearing her; and when she next peeped out the Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the ground near the door, staring stupidly up into the sky.
Alice went timidly up to the door, and knocked.
There's no sort of use in knocking, said the Footman, and that for two reasons. First, because I'm on the same side of the door as you are; secondly, because they're making such a noise inside, no one could possibly hear you. And certainly there was a most extraordinary noise going on within—a constant howling and sneezing, and every now and then a great crash, as if a dish or kettle had been broken to pieces.
Please, then, said Alice, how am I to get in?
There might be some sense in your knocking, the Footman went on without attending to her, if we had the door between us. For instance, if you were inside, you might knock, and I could let you out, you know. He was looking up into the sky all the time he was speaking, and this Alice thought decidedly uncivil. But perhaps he can't help it, she said to herself; his eyes are so very nearly at the top of his head. But at any rate he might answer questions.—How am I to get in? she repeated, aloud.
I shall sit here, the Footman remarked, till tomorrow—
At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate came skimming out, straight at the Footman's head: it just grazed his nose, and broke to pieces against one of the trees behind him.
—or next day, maybe, the Footman continued in the same tone, exactly as if nothing had happened.
How am I to get in? asked Alice again, in a louder tone.
Are you to get in at all? said the Footman. That's the first question, you know.
It was, no doubt: only Alice did not like to be told so. It's really dreadful, she muttered to herself, the way all the creatures argue. It's enough to drive one crazy!
The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for repeating his remark, with variations. I shall sit here, he said, on and off, for days and days.
But what am I to do? said Alice.
Anything you like, said the Footman, and began whistling.
Oh, there's no use in talking to him, said Alice desperately: he's perfectly idiotic! And she opened the door and went in.
The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of smoke from one end to the other: the Duchess was sitting on a three-legged stool in the middle, nursing a baby; the cook was leaning over the fire, stirring a large cauldron which seemed to be full of soup.
There's certainly too much pepper in that soup! Alice said to herself, as well as she could for sneezing.
There was certainly too much of it in the air. Even the Duchess sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was sneezing and howling alternately without a moment's pause. The only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze, were the cook, and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and grinning from ear to ear.
Please would you tell me, said Alice, a little timidly, for she was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to speak first, why your cat grins like that?
It's a Cheshire cat, said the Duchess, and that's why. Pig!
She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice quite jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed to the baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and went on again:—
I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I didn't know that cats could grin.
They all can, said the Duchess; and most of em do.
I don't know of any that do, Alice said very politely, feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation.
You don't know much, said the Duchess; and that's a fact.
Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought it would be as well to introduce some other subject of conversation. While she was trying to fix on one, the cook took the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby—the fire-irons came first; then followed a shower of saucepans, plates, and dishes. The Duchess took no notice of them even when they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already, that it was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.
Oh, please mind what you're doing! cried Alice, jumping up and down in an agony of terror. Oh, there goes his precious nose'; as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very nearly carried it off.
If everybody minded their own business, the Duchess said in a hoarse growl, the world would go round a deal faster than it does.
Which would not be an advantage, said Alice, who felt very glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her knowledge. Just think of what work it would make with the day and night! You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn round on its axis—
Talking of axes, said the Duchess, chop off her head!
Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant to take the hint; but the cook was busily stirring the soup, and seemed not to be listening, so she went on again: Twenty-four hours, I think; or is it twelve? I—
Oh, don't bother me, said the Duchess; I never could abide figures! And with that she began nursing her child again, singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a violent shake at the end of every line:
   Speak roughly to your little boy,
    And beat him when he sneezes:
   He only does it to annoy,
    Because he knows it teases.

         CHORUS.

 (In which the cook and the baby joined):—

       Wow! wow! wow!
While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept tossing the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing howled so, that Alice could hardly hear the words:—
   I speak severely to my boy,
    I beat him when he sneezes;
   For he can thoroughly enjoy
    The pepper when he pleases!

         CHORUS.

       Wow! wow! wow!
Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like! the Duchess said to Alice, flinging the baby at her as she spoke. I must go and get ready to play croquet with the Queen, and she hurried out of the room. The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out, but it just missed her.
Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all directions, just like a star-fish, thought Alice. The poor little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it, and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again, so that altogether, for the first minute or two, it was as much as she could do to hold it.
As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it, (which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to prevent its undoing itself,) she carried it out into the open air. If I don't take this child away with me, thought Alice, they're sure to kill it in a day or two: wouldn't it be murder to leave it behind? She said the last words out loud, and the little thing grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time). Don't grunt, said Alice; that's not at all a proper way of expressing yourself.
The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into its face to see what was the matter with it. There could be no doubt that it had a very turn-up nose, much more like a snout than a real nose; also its eyes were getting extremely small for a baby: altogether Alice did not like the look of the thing at all. But perhaps it was only sobbing, she thought, and looked into its eyes again, to see if there were any tears.
No, there were no tears. If you're going to turn into a pig, my dear, said Alice, seriously, I'll have nothing more to do with you. Mind now! The poor little thing sobbed again (or grunted, it was impossible to say which), and they went on for some while in silence.
Alice was just beginning to think to herself, Now, what am I to do with this creature when I get it home? when it grunted again, so violently, that she looked down into its face in some alarm. This time there could be no mistake about it: it was neither more nor less than a pig, and she felt that it would be quite absurd for her to carry it further.
So she set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to see it trot away quietly into the wood. If it had grown up, she said to herself, it would have made a dreadfully ugly child: but it makes rather a handsome pig, I think. And she began thinking over other children she knew, who might do very well as pigs, and was just saying to herself, if one only knew the right way to change them— when she was a little startled by seeing the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards off.
The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice. It looked good-natured, she thought: still it had very long claws and a great many teeth, so she felt that it ought to be treated with respect.
Cheshire Puss, she began, rather timidly, as she did not at all know whether it would like the name: however, it only grinned a little wider. Come, it's pleased so far, thought Alice, and she went on. Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?
That depends a good deal on where you want to get to, said the Cat.
I don't much care where— said Alice.
Then it doesn't matter which way you go, said the Cat.
—so long as I get somewhere, Alice added as an explanation.
Oh, you're sure to do that, said the Cat, if you only walk long enough.
Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another question. What sort of people live about here?
In that direction, the Cat said, waving its right paw round, lives a Hatter: and in that direction, waving the other paw, lives a March Hare. Visit either you like: they're both mad.
But I don't want to go among mad people, Alice remarked.
Oh, you can't help that, said the Cat: we're all mad here. I'm mad. You're mad.
How do you know I'm mad? said Alice.
You must be, said the Cat, or you wouldn't have come here.
Alice didn't think that proved it at all; however, she went on And how do you know that you're mad?
To begin with, said the Cat, a dog's not mad. You grant that?
I suppose so, said Alice.
Well, then, the Cat went on, you see, a dog growls when it's angry, and wags its tail when it's pleased. Now I growl when I'm pleased, and wag my tail when I'm angry. Therefore I'm mad.
I call it purring, not growling, said Alice.
Call it what you like, said the Cat. Do you play croquet with the Queen to-day?
I should like it very much, said Alice, but I haven't been invited yet.
You'll see me there, said the Cat, and vanished.
Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used to queer things happening. While she was looking at the place where it had been, it suddenly appeared again.
By-the-bye, what became of the baby? said the Cat. I'd nearly forgotten to ask.
It turned into a pig, Alice quietly said, just as if it had come back in a natural way.
I thought it would, said the Cat, and vanished again.
Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it did not appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the direction in which the March Hare was said to live. I've seen hatters before, she said to herself; the March Hare will be much the most interesting, and perhaps as this is May it won't be raving mad—at least not so mad as it was in March. As she said this, she looked up, and there was the Cat again, sitting on a branch of a tree.
Did you say pig, or fig? said the Cat.
I said pig, replied Alice; and I wish you wouldn't keep appearing and vanishing so suddenly: you make one quite giddy.
All right, said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite slowly, beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the grin, which remained some time after the rest of it had gone.
Well! I've often seen a cat without a grin, thought Alice; but a grin without a cat! It's the most curious thing I ever saw in my life!
She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of the house of the March Hare: she thought it must be the right house, because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was thatched with fur. It was so large a house, that she did not like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the lefthand bit of mushroom, and raised herself to about two feet high: even then she walked up towards it rather timidly, saying to herself Suppose it should be raving mad after all! I almost wish I'd gone to see the Hatter instead!

There was a table set out under a tree in front of the house, and the March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it: a Dormouse was sitting between them, fast asleep, and the other two were using it as a cushion, resting their elbows on it, and talking over its head. Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse, thought Alice; only, as it's asleep, I suppose it doesn't mind.
The table was a large one, but the three were all crowded together at one corner of it: No room! No room! they cried out when they saw Alice coming. There's plenty of room! said Alice indignantly, and she sat down in a large arm-chair at one end of the table.
Have some wine, the March Hare said in an encouraging tone.
Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it but tea. I don't see any wine, she remarked.
There isn't any, said the March Hare.
Then it wasn't very civil of you to offer it, said Alice angrily.
It wasn't very civil of you to sit down without being invited, said the March Hare.
I didn't know it was your table, said Alice; it's laid for a great many more than three.
Your hair wants cutting, said the Hatter. He had been looking at Alice for some time with great curiosity, and this was his first speech.
You should learn not to make personal remarks, Alice said with some severity; it's very rude.
The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this; but all he said was, Why is a raven like a writing-desk?
Come, we shall have some fun now! thought Alice. I'm glad they've begun asking riddles.—I believe I can guess that, she added aloud.
Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it? said the March Hare.
Exactly so, said Alice.
Then you should say what you mean, the March Hare went on.
I do, Alice hastily replied; at least—at least I mean what I say—that's the same thing, you know.
Not the same thing a bit! said the Hatter. You might just as well say that "I see what I eat" is the same thing as "I eat what I see"!
You might just as well say, added the March Hare, that "I like what I get" is the same thing as "I get what I like"!
You might just as well say, added the Dormouse, who seemed to be talking in his sleep, that "I breathe when I sleep" is the same thing as "I sleep when I breathe"!
It is the same thing with you, said the Hatter, and here the conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute, while Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and writing-desks, which wasn't much.
The Hatter was the first to break the silence. What day of the month is it? he said, turning to Alice: he had taken his watch out of his pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking it every now and then, and holding it to his ear.
Alice considered a little, and then said The fourth.
Two days wrong! sighed the Hatter. I told you butter wouldn't suit the works! he added looking angrily at the March Hare.
It was the best butter, the March Hare meekly replied.
Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well, the Hatter grumbled: you shouldn't have put it in with the bread-knife.
The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily: then he dipped it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again: but he could think of nothing better to say than his first remark, It was the best butter, you know.
Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity. What a funny watch! she remarked. It tells the day of the month, and doesn't tell what o'clock it is!
Why should it? muttered the Hatter. Does your watch tell you what year it is?
Of course not, Alice replied very readily: but that's because it stays the same year for such a long time together.
Which is just the case with mine, said the Hatter.
Alice felt dreadfully puzzled. The Hatter's remark seemed to have no sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English. I don't quite understand you, she said, as politely as she could.
The Dormouse is asleep again, said the Hatter, and he poured a little hot tea upon its nose.
The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without opening its eyes, Of course, of course; just what I was going to remark myself.
Have you guessed the riddle yet? the Hatter said, turning to Alice again.
No, I give it up, Alice replied: what's the answer?
I haven't the slightest idea, said the Hatter.
Nor I, said the March Hare.
Alice sighed wearily. I think you might do something better with the time, she said, than waste it in asking riddles that have no answers.
If you knew Time as well as I do, said the Hatter, you wouldn't talk about wasting it. It's him.
I don't know what you mean, said Alice.
Of course you don't! the Hatter said, tossing his head contemptuously. I dare say you never even spoke to Time!
Perhaps not, Alice cautiously replied: but I know I have to beat time when I learn music.
Ah! that accounts for it, said the Hatter. He won't stand beating. Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do almost anything you liked with the clock. For instance, suppose it were nine o'clock in the morning, just time to begin lessons: you'd only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the clock in a twinkling! Half-past one, time for dinner!
('I only wish it was, the March Hare said to itself in a whisper.)
That would be grand, certainly, said Alice thoughtfully: but then—I shouldn't be hungry for it, you know.
Not at first, perhaps, said the Hatter: but you could keep it to half-past one as long as you liked.
Is that the way you manage? Alice asked.
The Hatter shook his head mournfully. Not I! he replied. We quarrelled last March—just before he went mad, you know— (pointing with his tea spoon at the March Hare,) —it was at the great concert given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing
     "Twinkle, twinkle, little bat!
     How I wonder what you're at!"
You know the song, perhaps?
I've heard something like it, said Alice.
It goes on, you know, the Hatter continued, in this way:—
     "Up above the world you fly,
     Like a tea-tray in the sky.
         Twinkle, twinkle—"
Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle— and went on so long that they had to pinch it to make it stop.
Well, I'd hardly finished the first verse, said the Hatter, when the Queen jumped up and bawled out, "He's murdering the time! Off with his head!"
How dreadfully savage! exclaimed Alice.
And ever since that, the Hatter went on in a mournful tone, he won't do a thing I ask! It's always six o'clock now.
A bright idea came into Alice's head. Is that the reason so many tea-things are put out here? she asked.
Yes, that's it, said the Hatter with a sigh: it's always tea-time, and we've no time to wash the things between whiles.
Then you keep moving round, I suppose? said Alice.
Exactly so, said the Hatter: as the things get used up.
But what happens when you come to the beginning again? Alice ventured to ask.
Suppose we change the subject, the March Hare interrupted, yawning. I'm getting tired of this. I vote the young lady tells us a story.
I'm afraid I don't know one, said Alice, rather alarmed at the proposal.
Then the Dormouse shall! they both cried. Wake up, Dormouse! And they pinched it on both sides at once.
The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes. I wasn't asleep, he said in a hoarse, feeble voice: I heard every word you fellows were saying.
Tell us a story! said the March Hare.
Yes, please do! pleaded Alice.
And be quick about it, added the Hatter, or you'll be asleep again before it's done.
Once upon a time there were three little sisters, the Dormouse began in a great hurry; and their names were Elsie, Lacie, and Tillie; and they lived at the bottom of a well—
What did they live on? said Alice, who always took a great interest in questions of eating and drinking.
They lived on treacle, said the Dormouse, after thinking a minute or two.
They couldn't have done that, you know, Alice gently remarked; they'd have been ill.
So they were, said the Dormouse; very ill.
Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went on: But why did they live at the bottom of a well?
Take some more tea, the March Hare said to Alice, very earnestly.
I've had nothing yet, Alice replied in an offended tone, so I can't take more.
You mean you can't take less, said the Hatter: it's very easy to take more than nothing.
Nobody asked your opinion, said Alice.
Who's making personal remarks now? the Hatter asked triumphantly.
Alice did not quite know what to say to this: so she helped herself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the Dormouse, and repeated her question. Why did they live at the bottom of a well?
The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and then said, It was a treacle-well.
There's no such thing! Alice was beginning very angrily, but the Hatter and the March Hare went Sh! sh! and the Dormouse sulkily remarked, If you can't be civil, you'd better finish the story for yourself.
No, please go on! Alice said very humbly; I won't interrupt again. I dare say there may be one.
One, indeed! said the Dormouse indignantly. However, he consented to go on. And so these three little sisters—they were learning to draw, you know—
What did they draw? said Alice, quite forgetting her promise.
Treacle, said the Dormouse, without considering at all this time.
I want a clean cup, interrupted the Hatter: let's all move one place on.
He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him: the March Hare moved into the Dormouse's place, and Alice rather unwillingly took the place of the March Hare. The Hatter was the only one who got any advantage from the change: and Alice was a good deal worse off than before, as the March Hare had just upset the milk-jug into his plate.
Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began very cautiously: But I don't understand. Where did they draw the treacle from?
You can draw water out of a water-well, said the Hatter; so I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well—eh, stupid?
But they were in the well, Alice said to the Dormouse, not choosing to notice this last remark.
Of course they were', said the Dormouse; —well in.
This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse go on for some time without interrupting it.
They were learning to draw, the Dormouse went on, yawning and rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; and they drew all manner of things—everything that begins with an M—
Why with an M? said Alice.
Why not? said the March Hare.
Alice was silent.
The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up again with a little shriek, and went on: —that begins with an M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness—you know you say things are "much of a muchness"—did you ever see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?
Really, now you ask me, said Alice, very much confused, I don't think—
Then you shouldn't talk, said the Hatter.
This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear: she got up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of her going, though she looked back once or twice, half hoping that they would call after her: the last time she saw them, they were trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot.
At any rate I'll never go there again! said Alice as she picked her way through the wood. It's the stupidest tea-party I ever was at in all my life!
Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a door leading right into it. That's very curious! she thought. But everything's curious today. I think I may as well go in at once. And in she went.
Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the little glass table. Now, I'll manage better this time, she said to herself, and began by taking the little golden key, and unlocking the door that led into the garden. Then she went to work nibbling at the mushroom (she had kept a piece of it in her pocket) till she was about a foot high: then she walked down the little passage: and then—she found herself at last in the beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool fountains.


A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden: the roses growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at it, busily painting them red. Alice thought this a very curious thing, and she went nearer to watch them, and just as she came up to them she heard one of them say, Look out now, Five! Don't go splashing paint over me like that!
I couldn't help it, said Five, in a sulky tone; Seven jogged my elbow.
On which Seven looked up and said, That's right, Five! Always lay the blame on others!
You'd better not talk! said Five. I heard the Queen say only yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!
What for? said the one who had spoken first.
That's none of your business, Two! said Seven.
Yes, it is his business! said Five, and I'll tell him—it was for bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions.
Seven flung down his brush, and had just begun Well, of all the unjust things— when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as she stood watching them, and he checked himself suddenly: the others looked round also, and all of them bowed low.
Would you tell me, said Alice, a little timidly, why you are painting those roses?
Five and Seven said nothing, but looked at Two. Two began in a low voice, Why the fact is, you see, Miss, this here ought to have been a red rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake; and if the Queen was to find it out, we should all have our heads cut off, you know. So you see, Miss, we're doing our best, afore she comes, to— At this moment Five, who had been anxiously looking across the garden, called out The Queen! The Queen! and the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon their faces. There was a sound of many footsteps, and Alice looked round, eager to see the Queen.
First came ten soldiers carrying clubs; these were all shaped like the three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and feet at the corners: next the ten courtiers; these were ornamented all over with diamonds, and walked two and two, as the soldiers did. After these came the royal children; there were ten of them, and the little dears came jumping merrily along hand in hand, in couples: they were all ornamented with hearts. Next came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens, and among them Alice recognised the White Rabbit: it was talking in a hurried nervous manner, smiling at everything that was said, and went by without noticing her. Then followed the Knave of Hearts, carrying the King's crown on a crimson velvet cushion; and, last of all this grand procession, came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS.
Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on her face like the three gardeners, but she could not remember ever having heard of such a rule at processions; and besides, what would be the use of a procession, thought she, if people had all to lie down upon their faces, so that they couldn't see it? So she stood still where she was, and waited.
When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped and looked at her, and the Queen said severely Who is this? She said it to the Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in reply.
Idiot! said the Queen, tossing her head impatiently; and, turning to Alice, she went on, What's your name, child?
My name is Alice, so please your Majesty, said Alice very politely; but she added, to herself, Why, they're only a pack of cards, after all. I needn't be afraid of them!
And who are these? said the Queen, pointing to the three gardeners who were lying round the rosetree; for, you see, as they were lying on their faces, and the pattern on their backs was the same as the rest of the pack, she could not tell whether they were gardeners, or soldiers, or courtiers, or three of her own children.
How should I know? said Alice, surprised at her own courage. It's no business of mine.
The Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at her for a moment like a wild beast, screamed Off with her head! Off—
Nonsense! said Alice, very loudly and decidedly, and the Queen was silent.
The King laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said Consider, my dear: she is only a child!
The Queen turned angrily away from him, and said to the Knave Turn them over!
The Knave did so, very carefully, with one foot.
Get up! said the Queen, in a shrill, loud voice, and the three gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the King, the Queen, the royal children, and everybody else.
Leave off that! screamed the Queen. You make me giddy. And then, turning to the rose-tree, she went on, What have you been doing here?
May it please your Majesty, said Two, in a very humble tone, going down on one knee as he spoke, we were trying—
I see! said the Queen, who had meanwhile been examining the roses. Off with their heads! and the procession moved on, three of the soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate gardeners, who ran to Alice for protection.
You shan't be beheaded! said Alice, and she put them into a large flower-pot that stood near. The three soldiers wandered about for a minute or two, looking for them, and then quietly marched off after the others.
Are their heads off? shouted the Queen.
Their heads are gone, if it please your Majesty! the soldiers shouted in reply.
That's right! shouted the Queen. Can you play croquet?
The soldiers were silent, and looked at Alice, as the question was evidently meant for her.
Yes! shouted Alice.
Come on, then! roared the Queen, and Alice joined the procession, wondering very much what would happen next.
It's—it's a very fine day! said a timid voice at her side. She was walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously into her face.
Very, said Alice: —where's the Duchess?
Hush! Hush! said the Rabbit in a low, hurried tone. He looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised himself upon tiptoe, put his mouth close to her ear, and whispered She's under sentence of execution.
What for? said Alice.
Did you say "What a pity!"? the Rabbit asked.
No, I didn't, said Alice: I don't think it's at all a pity. I said "What for?"
She boxed the Queen's ears— the Rabbit began. Alice gave a little scream of laughter. Oh, hush! the Rabbit whispered in a frightened tone. The Queen will hear you! You see, she came rather late, and the Queen said—
Get to your places! shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder, and people began running about in all directions, tumbling up against each other; however, they got settled down in a minute or two, and the game began. Alice thought she had never seen such a curious croquet-ground in her life; it was all ridges and furrows; the balls were live hedgehogs, the mallets live flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches.
The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her flamingo: she succeeded in getting its body tucked away, comfortably enough, under her arm, with its legs hanging down, but generally, just as she had got its neck nicely straightened out, and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head, it would twist itself round and look up in her face, with such a puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing: and when she had got its head down, and was going to begin again, it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled itself, and was in the act of crawling away: besides all this, there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she wanted to send the hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the ground, Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very difficult game indeed.
The players all played at once without waiting for turns, quarrelling all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in a very short time the Queen was in a furious passion, and went stamping about, and shouting Off with his head! or Off with her head! about once in a minute.
Alice began to feel very uneasy: to be sure, she had not as yet had any dispute with the Queen, but she knew that it might happen any minute, and then, thought she, what would become of me? They're dreadfully fond of beheading people here; the great wonder is, that there's any one left alive!
She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering whether she could get away without being seen, when she noticed a curious appearance in the air: it puzzled her very much at first, but, after watching it a minute or two, she made it out to be a grin, and she said to herself It's the Cheshire Cat: now I shall have somebody to talk to.
How are you getting on? said the Cat, as soon as there was mouth enough for it to speak with.
Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded. It's no use speaking to it, she thought, till its ears have come, or at least one of them. In another minute the whole head appeared, and then Alice put down her flamingo, and began an account of the game, feeling very glad she had someone to listen to her. The Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight, and no more of it appeared.
I don't think they play at all fairly, Alice began, in rather a complaining tone, and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can't hear oneself speak—and they don't seem to have any rules in particular; at least, if there are, nobody attends to them—and you've no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive; for instance, there's the arch I've got to go through next walking about at the other end of the ground—and I should have croqueted the Queen's hedgehog just now, only it ran away when it saw mine coming!
How do you like the Queen? said the Cat in a low voice.
Not at all, said Alice: she's so extremely— Just then she noticed that the Queen was close behind her, listening: so she went on, —likely to win, that it's hardly worth while finishing the game.
The Queen smiled and passed on.
Who are you talking to? said the King, going up to Alice, and looking at the Cat's head with great curiosity.
It's a friend of mine—a Cheshire Cat, said Alice: allow me to introduce it.
I don't like the look of it at all, said the King: however, it may kiss my hand if it likes.
I'd rather not, the Cat remarked.
Don't be impertinent, said the King, and don't look at me like that! He got behind Alice as he spoke.
A cat may look at a king, said Alice. I've read that in some book, but I don't remember where.
Well, it must be removed, said the King very decidedly, and he called the Queen, who was passing at the moment, My dear! I wish you would have this cat removed!
The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great or small. Off with his head! she said, without even looking round.
I'll fetch the executioner myself, said the King eagerly, and he hurried off.
Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game was going on, as she heard the Queen's voice in the distance, screaming with passion. She had already heard her sentence three of the players to be executed for having missed their turns, and she did not like the look of things at all, as the game was in such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or not. So she went in search of her hedgehog.
The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog, which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one of them with the other: the only difficulty was, that her flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up into a tree.
By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back, the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight: but it doesn't matter much, thought Alice, as all the arches are gone from this side of the ground. So she tucked it away under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for a little more conversation with her friend.
When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to find quite a large crowd collected round it: there was a dispute going on between the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent, and looked very uncomfortable.
The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her, though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they said.
The executioner's argument was, that you couldn't cut off a head unless there was a body to cut it off from: that he had never had to do such a thing before, and he wasn't going to begin at his time of life.
The King's argument was, that anything that had a head could be beheaded, and that you weren't to talk nonsense.
The Queen's argument was, that if something wasn't done about it in less than no time she'd have everybody executed, all round. (It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so grave and anxious.)
Alice could think of nothing else to say but It belongs to the Duchess: you'd better ask her about it.
She's in prison, the Queen said to the executioner: fetch her here. And the executioner went off like an arrow.
The Cat's head began fading away the moment he was gone, and, by the time he had come back with the Duchess, it had entirely disappeared; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and down looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.

You can't think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old thing! said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately into Alice's, and they walked off together.
Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had made her so savage when they met in the kitchen.
When I'm a Duchess, she said to herself, (not in a very hopeful tone though), I won't have any pepper in my kitchen at all. Soup does very well without—Maybe it's always pepper that makes people hot-tempered, she went on, very much pleased at having found out a new kind of rule, and vinegar that makes them sour—and camomile that makes them bitter—and—and barley-sugar and such things that make children sweet-tempered. I only wish people knew that: then they wouldn't be so stingy about it, you know—
She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a little startled when she heard her voice close to her ear. You're thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you forget to talk. I can't tell you just now what the moral of that is, but I shall remember it in a bit.
Perhaps it hasn't one, Alice ventured to remark.
Tut, tut, child! said the Duchess. Everything's got a moral, if only you can find it. And she squeezed herself up closer to Alice's side as she spoke.
Alice did not much like keeping so close to her: first, because the Duchess was very ugly; and secondly, because she was exactly the right height to rest her chin upon Alice's shoulder, and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin. However, she did not like to be rude, so she bore it as well as she could.
The game's going on rather better now, she said, by way of keeping up the conversation a little.
'Tis so, said the Duchess: and the moral of that is—"Oh, tis love, tis love, that makes the world go round!"
Somebody said, Alice whispered, that it's done by everybody minding their own business!
Ah, well! It means much the same thing, said the Duchess, digging her sharp little chin into Alice's shoulder as she added, and the moral of that is—"Take care of the sense, and the sounds will take care of themselves."
How fond she is of finding morals in things! Alice thought to herself.
I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your waist, the Duchess said after a pause: the reason is, that I'm doubtful about the temper of your flamingo. Shall I try the experiment?
He might bite, Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all anxious to have the experiment tried.
Very true, said the Duchess: flamingoes and mustard both bite. And the moral of that is—"Birds of a feather flock together."
Only mustard isn't a bird, Alice remarked.
Right, as usual, said the Duchess: what a clear way you have of putting things!
It's a mineral, I think, said Alice.
Of course it is, said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree to everything that Alice said; there's a large mustard-mine near here. And the moral of that is—"The more there is of mine, the less there is of yours."
Oh, I know! exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this last remark, it's a vegetable. It doesn't look like one, but it is.
I quite agree with you, said the Duchess; and the moral of that is—"Be what you would seem to be"—or if you'd like it put more simply—"Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than what it might appear to others that what you were or might have been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared to them to be otherwise."
I think I should understand that better, Alice said very politely, if I had it written down: but I can't quite follow it as you say it.
That's nothing to what I could say if I chose, the Duchess replied, in a pleased tone.
Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that, said Alice.
Oh, don't talk about trouble! said the Duchess. I make you a present of everything I've said as yet.
A cheap sort of present! thought Alice. I'm glad they don't give birthday presents like that! But she did not venture to say it out loud.
Thinking again? the Duchess asked, with another dig of her sharp little chin.
I've a right to think, said Alice sharply, for she was beginning to feel a little worried.
Just about as much right, said the Duchess, as pigs have to fly; and the m—
But here, to Alice's great surprise, the Duchess's voice died away, even in the middle of her favourite word moral, and the arm that was linked into hers began to tremble. Alice looked up, and there stood the Queen in front of them, with her arms folded, frowning like a thunderstorm.
A fine day, your Majesty! the Duchess began in a low, weak voice.
Now, I give you fair warning, shouted the Queen, stamping on the ground as she spoke; either you or your head must be off, and that in about half no time! Take your choice!
The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.
Let's go on with the game, the Queen said to Alice; and Alice was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her back to the croquet-ground.
The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen's absence, and were resting in the shade: however, the moment they saw her, they hurried back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a moment's delay would cost them their lives.
All the time they were playing the Queen never left off quarrelling with the other players, and shouting Off with his head! or Off with her head! Those whom she sentenced were taken into custody by the soldiers, who of course had to leave off being arches to do this, so that by the end of half an hour or so there were no arches left, and all the players, except the King, the Queen, and Alice, were in custody and under sentence of execution.
Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to Alice, Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?
No, said Alice. I don't even know what a Mock Turtle is.
It's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from, said the Queen.
I never saw one, or heard of one, said Alice.
Come on, then, said the Queen, and he shall tell you his history,
As they walked off together, Alice heard the King say in a low voice, to the company generally, You are all pardoned. Come, that's a good thing! she said to herself, for she had felt quite unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered.
They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the sun. (If you don't know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.) Up, lazy thing! said the Queen, and take this young lady to see the Mock Turtle, and to hear his history. I must go back and see after some executions I have ordered'; and she walked off, leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon. Alice did not quite like the look of the creature, but on the whole she thought it would be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage Queen: so she waited.
The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes: then it watched the Queen till she was out of sight: then it chuckled. What fun! said the Gryphon, half to itself, half to Alice.
What is the fun? said Alice.
Why, she, said the Gryphon. It's all her fancy, that: they never executes nobody, you know. Come on!
Everybody says "come on!" here, thought Alice, as she went slowly after it: I never was so ordered about in all my life, never!
They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the distance, sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and, as they came nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart would break. She pitied him deeply. What is his sorrow? she asked the Gryphon, and the Gryphon answered, very nearly in the same words as before, It's all his fancy, that: he hasn't got no sorrow, you know. Come on!
So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.
This here young lady, said the Gryphon, she wants for to know your history, she do.
I'll tell it her, said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow tone: sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've finished.
So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes. Alice thought to herself, I don't see how he can ever finish, if he doesn't begin. But she waited patiently.
Once, said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, I was a real Turtle.
These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only by an occasional exclamation of Hjckrrh! from the Gryphon, and the constant heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle. Alice was very nearly getting up and saying, Thank you, sir, for your interesting story, but she could not help thinking there must be more to come, so she sat still and said nothing.
When we were little, the Mock Turtle went on at last, more calmly, though still sobbing a little now and then, we went to school in the sea. The master was an old Turtle—we used to call him Tortoise—
Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one? Alice asked.
We called him Tortoise because he taught us, said the Mock Turtle angrily: really you are very dull!
You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple question, added the Gryphon; and then they both sat silent and looked at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth. At last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle, Drive on, old fellow! Don't be all day about it! and he went on in these words:
Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn't believe it—
I never said I didn't! interrupted Alice.
You did, said the Mock Turtle.
Hold your tongue! added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak again. The Mock Turtle went on.
We had the best of educations—in fact, we went to school every day—
I've been to a day-school, too, said Alice; you needn't be so proud as all that.
With extras? asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.
Yes, said Alice, we learned French and music.
And washing? said the Mock Turtle.
Certainly not! said Alice indignantly.
Ah! then yours wasn't a really good school, said the Mock Turtle in a tone of great relief. Now at ours they had at the end of the bill, "French, music, and washing—extra."
You couldn't have wanted it much, said Alice; living at the bottom of the sea.
I couldn't afford to learn it. said the Mock Turtle with a sigh. I only took the regular course.
What was that? inquired Alice.
Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with, the Mock Turtle replied; and then the different branches of Arithmetic—Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.
I never heard of "Uglification," Alice ventured to say. What is it?
The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise. What! Never heard of uglifying! it exclaimed. You know what to beautify is, I suppose?
Yes, said Alice doubtfully: it means—to—make—anything—prettier.
Well, then, the Gryphon went on, if you don't know what to uglify is, you are a simpleton.
Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about it, so she turned to the Mock Turtle, and said What else had you to learn?
Well, there was Mystery, the Mock Turtle replied, counting off the subjects on his flappers, —Mystery, ancient and modern, with Seaography: then Drawling—the Drawling-master was an old conger-eel, that used to come once a week: he taught us Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils.
What was that like? said Alice.
Well, I can't show it you myself, the Mock Turtle said: I'm too stiff. And the Gryphon never learnt it.
Hadn't time, said the Gryphon: I went to the Classics master, though. He was an old crab, he was.
I never went to him, the Mock Turtle said with a sigh: he taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say.
So he did, so he did, said the Gryphon, sighing in his turn; and both creatures hid their faces in their paws.
And how many hours a day did you do lessons? said Alice, in a hurry to change the subject.
Ten hours the first day, said the Mock Turtle: nine the next, and so on.
What a curious plan! exclaimed Alice.
That's the reason they're called lessons, the Gryphon remarked: because they lessen from day to day.
This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a little before she made her next remark. Then the eleventh day must have been a holiday?
Of course it was, said the Mock Turtle.
And how did you manage on the twelfth? Alice went on eagerly.
That's enough about lessons, the Gryphon interrupted in a very decided tone: tell her something about the games now.

The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper across his eyes. He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for a minute or two sobs choked his voice. Same as if he had a bone in his throat, said the Gryphon: and it set to work shaking him and punching him in the back. At last the Mock Turtle recovered his voice, and, with tears running down his cheeks, he went on again:—
You may not have lived much under the sea— ('I haven't, said Alice)—'and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster— (Alice began to say I once tasted— but checked herself hastily, and said No, never') —so you can have no idea what a delightful thing a Lobster Quadrille is!
No, indeed, said Alice. What sort of a dance is it?
Why, said the Gryphon, you first form into a line along the sea-shore—
Two lines! cried the Mock Turtle. Seals, turtles, salmon, and so on; then, when you've cleared all the jelly-fish out of the way—
That generally takes some time, interrupted the Gryphon.
—you advance twice—
Each with a lobster as a partner! cried the Gryphon.
Of course, the Mock Turtle said: advance twice, set to partners—
—change lobsters, and retire in same order, continued the Gryphon.
Then, you know, the Mock Turtle went on, you throw the—
The lobsters! shouted the Gryphon, with a bound into the air.
—as far out to sea as you can—
Swim after them! screamed the Gryphon.
Turn a somersault in the sea! cried the Mock Turtle, capering wildly about.
Change lobsters again! yelled the Gryphon at the top of its voice.
Back to land again, and that's all the first figure, said the Mock Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and the two creatures, who had been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at Alice.
It must be a very pretty dance, said Alice timidly.
Would you like to see a little of it? said the Mock Turtle.
Very much indeed, said Alice.
Come, let's try the first figure! said the Mock Turtle to the Gryphon. We can do without lobsters, you know. Which shall sing?
Oh, you sing, said the Gryphon. I've forgotten the words.
So they began solemnly dancing round and round Alice, every now and then treading on her toes when they passed too close, and waving their forepaws to mark the time, while the Mock Turtle sang this, very slowly and sadly:—
 "Will you walk a little faster?" said a whiting to a snail.
 "There's a porpoise close behind us, and he's treading on my tail.

 See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!
 They are waiting on the shingle—will you come and join the dance?

 Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the dance?
 Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the dance?

 "You can really have no notion how delightful it will be
 When they take us up and throw us, with the lobsters, out to sea!"
 But the snail replied "Too far, too far!" and gave a look askance—
 Said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he would not join the dance.

 Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join the dance.
 Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join the dance.

 "What matters it how far we go?" his scaly friend replied.
 "There is another shore, you know, upon the other side.
 The further off from England the nearer is to France—
 Then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and join the dance.

 Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the dance?
 Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the dance?"
Thank you, it's a very interesting dance to watch, said Alice, feeling very glad that it was over at last: and I do so like that curious song about the whiting!
Oh, as to the whiting, said the Mock Turtle, they—you've seen them, of course?
Yes, said Alice, I've often seen them at dinn— she checked herself hastily.
I don't know where Dinn may be, said the Mock Turtle, but if you've seen them so often, of course you know what they're like.
I believe so, Alice replied thoughtfully. They have their tails in their mouths—and they're all over crumbs.
You're wrong about the crumbs, said the Mock Turtle: crumbs would all wash off in the sea. But they have their tails in their mouths; and the reason is— here the Mock Turtle yawned and shut his eyes.—'Tell her about the reason and all that, he said to the Gryphon.
The reason is, said the Gryphon, that they would go with the lobsters to the dance. So they got thrown out to sea. So they had to fall a long way. So they got their tails fast in their mouths. So they couldn't get them out again. That's all.
Thank you, said Alice, it's very interesting. I never knew so much about a whiting before.
I can tell you more than that, if you like, said the Gryphon. Do you know why it's called a whiting?
I never thought about it, said Alice. Why?
It does the boots and shoes, the Gryphon replied very solemnly.
Alice was thoroughly puzzled. Does the boots and shoes! she repeated in a wondering tone.
Why, what are your shoes done with? said the Gryphon. I mean, what makes them so shiny?
Alice looked down at them, and considered a little before she gave her answer. They're done with blacking, I believe.
Boots and shoes under the sea, the Gryphon went on in a deep voice, are done with a whiting. Now you know.
And what are they made of? Alice asked in a tone of great curiosity.
Soles and eels, of course, the Gryphon replied rather impatiently: any shrimp could have told you that.
If I'd been the whiting, said Alice, whose thoughts were still running on the song, I'd have said to the porpoise, "Keep back, please: we don't want you with us!"
They were obliged to have him with them, the Mock Turtle said: no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.
Wouldn't it really? said Alice in a tone of great surprise.
Of course not, said the Mock Turtle: why, if a fish came to me, and told me he was going a journey, I should say "With what porpoise?"
Don't you mean "purpose"? said Alice.
I mean what I say, the Mock Turtle replied in an offended tone. And the Gryphon added Come, let's hear some of your adventures.
I could tell you my adventures—beginning from this morning, said Alice a little timidly: but it's no use going back to yesterday, because I was a different person then.
Explain all that, said the Mock Turtle.
No, no! The adventures first, said the Gryphon in an impatient tone: explanations take such a dreadful time.
So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when she first saw the White Rabbit. She was a little nervous about it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so very wide, but she gained courage as she went on. Her listeners were perfectly quiet till she got to the part about her repeating You are old, Father William, to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming different, and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath, and said That's very curious.
It's all about as curious as it can be, said the Gryphon.
It all came different! the Mock Turtle repeated thoughtfully. I should like to hear her try and repeat something now. Tell her to begin. He looked at the Gryphon as if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice.
Stand up and repeat "'Tis the voice of the sluggard," said the Gryphon.
How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat lessons! thought Alice; I might as well be at school at once. However, she got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so full of the Lobster Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was saying, and the words came very queer indeed:—
  'Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare,
  "You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair."
  As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
  Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.

       [later editions continued as follows
  When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,
  And will talk in contemptuous tones of the Shark,
  But, when the tide rises and sharks are around,
  His voice has a timid and tremulous sound.]
That's different from what I used to say when I was a child, said the Gryphon.
Well, I never heard it before, said the Mock Turtle; but it sounds uncommon nonsense.
Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her hands, wondering if anything would ever happen in a natural way again.
I should like to have it explained, said the Mock Turtle.
She can't explain it, said the Gryphon hastily. Go on with the next verse.
But about his toes? the Mock Turtle persisted. How could he turn them out with his nose, you know?
It's the first position in dancing. Alice said; but was dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the subject.
Go on with the next verse, the Gryphon repeated impatiently: it begins "I passed by his garden."
Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would all come wrong, and she went on in a trembling voice:—
  I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,
  How the Owl and the Panther were sharing a pie—

    [later editions continued as follows
  The Panther took pie-crust, and gravy, and meat,
  While the Owl had the dish as its share of the treat.
  When the pie was all finished, the Owl, as a boon,
  Was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon:
  While the Panther received knife and fork with a growl,
  And concluded the banquet—]
What is the use of repeating all that stuff, the Mock Turtle interrupted, if you don't explain it as you go on? It's by far the most confusing thing I ever heard!
Yes, I think you'd better leave off, said the Gryphon: and Alice was only too glad to do so.
Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille? the Gryphon went on. Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you a song?
Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind, Alice replied, so eagerly that the Gryphon said, in a rather offended tone, Hm! No accounting for tastes! Sing her "Turtle Soup," will you, old fellow?
The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes choked with sobs, to sing this:—
   Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,
   Waiting in a hot tureen!
   Who for such dainties would not stoop?
   Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
   Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
     Beau—ootiful Soo—oop!
     Beau—ootiful Soo—oop!
   Soo—oop of the e—e—evening,
     Beautiful, beautiful Soup!

   Beautiful Soup! Who cares for fish,
   Game, or any other dish?
   Who would not give all else for two
   Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
   Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
     Beau—ootiful Soo—oop!
     Beau—ootiful Soo—oop!
   Soo—oop of the e—e—evening,
     Beautiful, beauti—FUL SOUP!
Chorus again! cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Turtle had just begun to repeat it, when a cry of The trial's beginning! was heard in the distance.
Come on! cried the Gryphon, and, taking Alice by the hand, it hurried off, without waiting for the end of the song.
What trial is it? Alice panted as she ran; but the Gryphon only answered Come on! and ran the faster, while more and more faintly came, carried on the breeze that followed them, the melancholy words:—
   Soo—oop of the e—e—evening,
     Beautiful, beautiful Soup!

The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when they arrived, with a great crowd assembled about them—all sorts of little birds and beasts, as well as the whole pack of cards: the Knave was standing before them, in chains, with a soldier on each side to guard him; and near the King was the White Rabbit, with a trumpet in one hand, and a scroll of parchment in the other. In the very middle of the court was a table, with a large dish of tarts upon it: they looked so good, that it made Alice quite hungry to look at them—'I wish they'd get the trial done, she thought, and hand round the refreshments! But there seemed to be no chance of this, so she began looking at everything about her, to pass away the time.
Alice had never been in a court of justice before, but she had read about them in books, and she was quite pleased to find that she knew the name of nearly everything there. That's the judge, she said to herself, because of his great wig.
The judge, by the way, was the King; and as he wore his crown over the wig, (look at the frontispiece if you want to see how he did it,) he did not look at all comfortable, and it was certainly not becoming.
And that's the jury-box, thought Alice, and those twelve creatures, (she was obliged to say creatures, you see, because some of them were animals, and some were birds,) I suppose they are the jurors. She said this last word two or three times over to herself, being rather proud of it: for she thought, and rightly too, that very few little girls of her age knew the meaning of it at all. However, jury-men would have done just as well.
The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates. What are they doing? Alice whispered to the Gryphon. They can't have anything to put down yet, before the trial's begun.
They're putting down their names, the Gryphon whispered in reply, for fear they should forget them before the end of the trial.
Stupid things! Alice began in a loud, indignant voice, but she stopped hastily, for the White Rabbit cried out, Silence in the court! and the King put on his spectacles and looked anxiously round, to make out who was talking.
Alice could see, as well as if she were looking over their shoulders, that all the jurors were writing down stupid things! on their slates, and she could even make out that one of them didn't know how to spell stupid, and that he had to ask his neighbour to tell him. A nice muddle their slates'll be in before the trial's over! thought Alice.
One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked. This of course, Alice could not stand, and she went round the court and got behind him, and very soon found an opportunity of taking it away. She did it so quickly that the poor little juror (it was Bill, the Lizard) could not make out at all what had become of it; so, after hunting all about for it, he was obliged to write with one finger for the rest of the day; and this was of very little use, as it left no mark on the slate.
Herald, read the accusation! said the King.
On this the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and then unrolled the parchment scroll, and read as follows:—
   The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts,
      All on a summer day:
    The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,
      And took them quite away!
Consider your verdict, the King said to the jury.
Not yet, not yet! the Rabbit hastily interrupted. There's a great deal to come before that!
Call the first witness, said the King; and the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and called out, First witness!
The first witness was the Hatter. He came in with a teacup in one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other. I beg pardon, your Majesty, he began, for bringing these in: but I hadn't quite finished my tea when I was sent for.
You ought to have finished, said the King. When did you begin?
The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him into the court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse. Fourteenth of March, I think it was, he said.
Fifteenth, said the March Hare.
Sixteenth, added the Dormouse.
Write that down, the King said to the jury, and the jury eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then added them up, and reduced the answer to shillings and pence.
Take off your hat, the King said to the Hatter.
It isn't mine, said the Hatter.
Stolen! the King exclaimed, turning to the jury, who instantly made a memorandum of the fact.
I keep them to sell, the Hatter added as an explanation; I've none of my own. I'm a hatter.
Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the Hatter, who turned pale and fidgeted.
Give your evidence, said the King; and don't be nervous, or I'll have you executed on the spot.
This did not seem to encourage the witness at all: he kept shifting from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the Queen, and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his teacup instead of the bread-and-butter.
Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was: she was beginning to grow larger again, and she thought at first she would get up and leave the court; but on second thoughts she decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for her.
I wish you wouldn't squeeze so. said the Dormouse, who was sitting next to her. I can hardly breathe.
I can't help it, said Alice very meekly: I'm growing.
You've no right to grow here, said the Dormouse.
Don't talk nonsense, said Alice more boldly: you know you're growing too.
Yes, but I grow at a reasonable pace, said the Dormouse: not in that ridiculous fashion. And he got up very sulkily and crossed over to the other side of the court.
All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the Hatter, and, just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to one of the officers of the court, Bring me the list of the singers in the last concert! on which the wretched Hatter trembled so, that he shook both his shoes off.
Give your evidence, the King repeated angrily, or I'll have you executed, whether you're nervous or not.
I'm a poor man, your Majesty, the Hatter began, in a trembling voice, —and I hadn't begun my tea—not above a week or so—and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin—and the twinkling of the tea—
The twinkling of the what? said the King.
It began with the tea, the Hatter replied.
Of course twinkling begins with a T! said the King sharply. Do you take me for a dunce? Go on!
I'm a poor man, the Hatter went on, and most things twinkled after that—only the March Hare said—
I didn't! the March Hare interrupted in a great hurry.
You did! said the Hatter.
I deny it! said the March Hare.
He denies it, said the King: leave out that part.
Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said— the Hatter went on, looking anxiously round to see if he would deny it too: but the Dormouse denied nothing, being fast asleep.
After that, continued the Hatter, I cut some more bread-and-butter—
But what did the Dormouse say? one of the jury asked.
That I can't remember, said the Hatter.
You must remember, remarked the King, or I'll have you executed.
The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter, and went down on one knee. I'm a poor man, your Majesty, he began.
You're a very poor speaker, said the King.
Here one of the guinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court. (As that is rather a hard word, I will just explain to you how it was done. They had a large canvas bag, which tied up at the mouth with strings: into this they slipped the guinea-pig, head first, and then sat upon it.)
I'm glad I've seen that done, thought Alice. I've so often read in the newspapers, at the end of trials, "There was some attempts at applause, which was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court," and I never understood what it meant till now.
If that's all you know about it, you may stand down, continued the King.
I can't go no lower, said the Hatter: I'm on the floor, as it is.
Then you may sit down, the King replied.
Here the other guinea-pig cheered, and was suppressed.
Come, that finished the guinea-pigs! thought Alice. Now we shall get on better.
I'd rather finish my tea, said the Hatter, with an anxious look at the Queen, who was reading the list of singers.
You may go, said the King, and the Hatter hurriedly left the court, without even waiting to put his shoes on.
—and just take his head off outside, the Queen added to one of the officers: but the Hatter was out of sight before the officer could get to the door.
Call the next witness! said the King.
The next witness was the Duchess's cook. She carried the pepper-box in her hand, and Alice guessed who it was, even before she got into the court, by the way the people near the door began sneezing all at once.
Give your evidence, said the King.
Shan't, said the cook.
The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, who said in a low voice, Your Majesty must cross-examine this witness.
Well, if I must, I must, the King said, with a melancholy air, and, after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till his eyes were nearly out of sight, he said in a deep voice, What are tarts made of?
Pepper, mostly, said the cook.
Treacle, said a sleepy voice behind her.
Collar that Dormouse, the Queen shrieked out. Behead that Dormouse! Turn that Dormouse out of court! Suppress him! Pinch him! Off with his whiskers!
For some minutes the whole court was in confusion, getting the Dormouse turned out, and, by the time they had settled down again, the cook had disappeared.
Never mind! said the King, with an air of great relief. Call the next witness. And he added in an undertone to the Queen, Really, my dear, you must cross-examine the next witness. It quite makes my forehead ache!
Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list, feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like, —for they haven't got much evidence yet, she said to herself. Imagine her surprise, when the White Rabbit read out, at the top of his shrill little voice, the name Alice!

Here! cried Alice, quite forgetting in the flurry of the moment how large she had grown in the last few minutes, and she jumped up in such a hurry that she tipped over the jury-box with the edge of her skirt, upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads of the crowd below, and there they lay sprawling about, reminding her very much of a globe of goldfish she had accidentally upset the week before.
Oh, I beg your pardon! she exclaimed in a tone of great dismay, and began picking them up again as quickly as she could, for the accident of the goldfish kept running in her head, and she had a vague sort of idea that they must be collected at once and put back into the jury-box, or they would die.
The trial cannot proceed, said the King in a very grave voice, until all the jurymen are back in their proper places—all, he repeated with great emphasis, looking hard at Alice as he said do.
Alice looked at the jury-box, and saw that, in her haste, she had put the Lizard in head downwards, and the poor little thing was waving its tail about in a melancholy way, being quite unable to move. She soon got it out again, and put it right; not that it signifies much, she said to herself; I should think it would be quite as much use in the trial one way up as the other.
As soon as the jury had a little recovered from the shock of being upset, and their slates and pencils had been found and handed back to them, they set to work very diligently to write out a history of the accident, all except the Lizard, who seemed too much overcome to do anything but sit with its mouth open, gazing up into the roof of the court.
What do you know about this business? the King said to Alice.
Nothing, said Alice.
Nothing whatever? persisted the King.
Nothing whatever, said Alice.
That's very important, the King said, turning to the jury. They were just beginning to write this down on their slates, when the White Rabbit interrupted: Unimportant, your Majesty means, of course, he said in a very respectful tone, but frowning and making faces at him as he spoke.
Unimportant, of course, I meant, the King hastily said, and went on to himself in an undertone,
important—unimportant—unimportant—important— as if he were trying which word sounded best.
Some of the jury wrote it down important, and some unimportant. Alice could see this, as she was near enough to look over their slates; but it doesn't matter a bit, she thought to herself.
At this moment the King, who had been for some time busily writing in his note-book, cackled out Silence! and read out from his book, Rule Forty-two. All persons more than a mile high to leave the court.
Everybody looked at Alice.
I'm not a mile high, said Alice.
You are, said the King.
Nearly two miles high, added the Queen.
Well, I shan't go, at any rate, said Alice: besides, that's not a regular rule: you invented it just now.
It's the oldest rule in the book, said the King.
Then it ought to be Number One, said Alice.
The King turned pale, and shut his note-book hastily. Consider your verdict, he said to the jury, in a low, trembling voice.
There's more evidence to come yet, please your Majesty, said the White Rabbit, jumping up in a great hurry; this paper has just been picked up.
What's in it? said the Queen.
I haven't opened it yet, said the White Rabbit, but it seems to be a letter, written by the prisoner to—to somebody.
It must have been that, said the King, unless it was written to nobody, which isn't usual, you know.
Who is it directed to? said one of the jurymen.
It isn't directed at all, said the White Rabbit; in fact, there's nothing written on the outside. He unfolded the paper as he spoke, and added It isn't a letter, after all: it's a set of verses.
Are they in the prisoner's handwriting? asked another of the jurymen.
No, they're not, said the White Rabbit, and that's the queerest thing about it. (The jury all looked puzzled.)
He must have imitated somebody else's hand, said the King. (The jury all brightened up again.)
Please your Majesty, said the Knave, I didn't write it, and they can't prove I did: there's no name signed at the end.
If you didn't sign it, said the King, that only makes the matter worse. You must have meant some mischief, or else you'd have signed your name like an honest man.
There was a general clapping of hands at this: it was the first really clever thing the King had said that day.
That proves his guilt, said the Queen.
It proves nothing of the sort! said Alice. Why, you don't even know what they're about!
Read them, said the King.
The White Rabbit put on his spectacles. Where shall I begin, please your Majesty? he asked.
Begin at the beginning, the King said gravely, and go on till you come to the end: then stop.
These were the verses the White Rabbit read:—
   They told me you had been to her,
    And mentioned me to him:
   She gave me a good character,
    But said I could not swim.

   He sent them word I had not gone
    (We know it to be true):
   If she should push the matter on,
    What would become of you?

   I gave her one, they gave him two,
    You gave us three or more;
   They all returned from him to you,
    Though they were mine before.

   If I or she should chance to be
    Involved in this affair,
   He trusts to you to set them free,
    Exactly as we were.

   My notion was that you had been
    (Before she had this fit)
   An obstacle that came between
    Him, and ourselves, and it.

   Don't let him know she liked them best,
    For this must ever be
   A secret, kept from all the rest,
    Between yourself and me.
That's the most important piece of evidence we've heard yet, said the King, rubbing his hands; so now let the jury—
If any one of them can explain it, said Alice, (she had grown so large in the last few minutes that she wasn't a bit afraid of interrupting him,) I'll give him sixpence. I don't believe there's an atom of meaning in it.
The jury all wrote down on their slates, She doesn't believe there's an atom of meaning in it, but none of them attempted to explain the paper.
If there's no meaning in it, said the King, that saves a world of trouble, you know, as we needn't try to find any. And yet I don't know, he went on, spreading out the verses on his knee, and looking at them with one eye; I seem to see some meaning in them, after all. "—said I could not swim—" you can't swim, can you? he added, turning to the Knave.
The Knave shook his head sadly. Do I look like it? he said. (Which he certainly did not, being made entirely of cardboard.)
All right, so far, said the King, and he went on muttering over the verses to himself: "We know it to be true—" that's the jury, of course—"I gave her one, they gave him two—" why, that must be what he did with the tarts, you know—
But, it goes on "they all returned from him to you," said Alice.
Why, there they are! said the King triumphantly, pointing to the tarts on the table. Nothing can be clearer than that. Then again—"before she had this fit—" you never had fits, my dear, I think? he said to the Queen.
Never! said the Queen furiously, throwing an inkstand at the Lizard as she spoke. (The unfortunate little Bill had left off writing on his slate with one finger, as he found it made no mark; but he now hastily began again, using the ink, that was trickling down his face, as long as it lasted.)
Then the words don't fit you, said the King, looking round the court with a smile. There was a dead silence.
It's a pun! the King added in an offended tone, and everybody laughed, Let the jury consider their verdict, the King said, for about the twentieth time that day.
No, no! said the Queen. Sentence first—verdict afterwards.
Stuff and nonsense! said Alice loudly. The idea of having the sentence first!
Hold your tongue! said the Queen, turning purple.
I won't! said Alice.
Off with her head! the Queen shouted at the top of her voice. Nobody moved.
Who cares for you? said Alice, (she had grown to her full size by this time.) You're nothing but a pack of cards!
At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came flying down upon her: she gave a little scream, half of fright and half of anger, and tried to beat them off, and found herself lying on the bank, with her head in the lap of her sister, who was gently brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the trees upon her face.
Wake up, Alice dear! said her sister; Why, what a long sleep you've had!
Oh, I've had such a curious dream! said Alice, and she told her sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about; and when she had finished, her sister kissed her, and said, It was a curious dream, dear, certainly: but now run in to your tea; it's getting late. So Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she ran, as well she might, what a wonderful dream it had been.
But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her head on her hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of little Alice and all her wonderful Adventures, till she too began dreaming after a fashion, and this was her dream:—
First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the tiny hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes were looking up into hers—she could hear the very tones of her voice, and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back the wandering hair that would always get into her eyes—and still as she listened, or seemed to listen, the whole place around her became alive with the strange creatures of her little sister's dream.
The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried by—the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the neighbouring pool—she could hear the rattle of the teacups as the March Hare and his friends shared their never-ending meal, and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate guests to execution—once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the Duchess's knee, while plates and dishes crashed around it—once more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking of the Lizard's slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs, filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable Mock Turtle.
So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again, and all would change to dull reality—the grass would be only rustling in the wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the reeds—the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-bells, and the Queen's shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd boy—and the sneeze of the baby, the shriek of the Gryphon, and all the other queer noises, would change (she knew) to the confused clamour of the busy farm-yard—while the lowing of the cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle's heavy sobs.
Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of hers would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how she would keep, through all her riper years, the simple and loving heart of her childhood: and how she would gather about her other little children, and make their eyes bright and eager with many a strange tale, perhaps even with the dream of Wonderland of long ago: and how she would feel with all their simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all their simple joys, remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer days.
              THE END

			  
			  is there a release party channel around ?
! ldap ssh
? party channel ? what is it? :D
!party
!party
 * KM0201 glares..
It's the new one.  The old one is still on the disk, but commented out in /etc/fstab, and isn't listed in swapon -s anymore.
how many days a ubuntu system booting from a usb pen drive last considering such a drive has a fixed number of write cycles.
Please don't post irrelevant links in here
quite some time still, i'd imagine
Hello
again
odd you wqould mispaste a rickroll
would*
anyway please keep comments Ubuntu support related.
lease install the package with full kernel sources for your distribution - that is what it says when i try to run the installer for my audio driver
how do i fix this?
i am not writing to any directory. just using the machine as a nat gateway
It's true though. I'm part of a ngo that's organising a music festival in my local town...
for unicef
i'd imagine a good few years - i may be wrong though and it's impossible to predict exactly
hmm
Sorry to be a bother but I'm having issues connecting to wifi on ubuntu 10 something with my netgear pci 802.11g wifi card. It shows a wifi symbol up near the clock in the corner with a red ! and has grayed out wired connection thing in the list and doesn't acknowledge wifi there. I can set wifi settings but at no point does it give me the option to connect.
install headers from synaptic	
cf
it says they are installed
is there a way to clone this usb pen drive incase it fails?so that i can use the other pen drive to boot
i was having similar problems. i updated using the update manager... and now it works fine.
shouldn't the command "lsmod" and "modprobe -l" give the same output for loaded modules?
11.4 come out on 28 apr 2011 right at what time midnight edt ???
yeah, you can use the 'dd' command for that
yes
`man dd` might help you.
jpk, was thinking that maybe resume was trying to load a stale image from the old swap partition
hmmm ty
pindropper it's not hooked up to the internet
Natty is not yet released and there is no predetermined time on the 28th when it will be. Await the release in #ubuntu-release-party or for more questions join #ubuntu+1
sory then I can help you
*can not
but thanks for the suggestion pin
pici just wonder fit it had a set time thanks
it
Connection refused
theres your problem then. if the internets not on but your wifi is... strange as it is, at least in my experience, ubuntu refuses to connect
trying text-based options 'vers=4,addr=192.168.10.41,clientaddr=192.168.10.80'" before it fails.   How do I get it NOT to use nfs4??
guys, I couldn't find the answer on ubuntu formus, and I am not trolling. Do you think ok-smelling sandwitches are still ok to eat after staying for a day in room temperature (version - smoked ham, ubuntu 10.10). (I just read the IRC guidelines, they didn't seem to forbid this)
no no it's not connecting to the router not just the internet
I'm on a windows machine now
how long will 10.10 wil have support ???/
We don't troubleshoot sandwiches. :(
ahh, sorry about that, i'll have to find a more suitable room to ask:(
eat the before they eat you
thats what i said, if the routers not connected to the internet, ubuntu sometimes wont connect to your wifi either.
Does anyone know when 11.4 goes live? It's the 28th in London.
The router is connected to the internet thats how I'm on
18 months
it 28th in Greece too :P
you might also want to try and do "edit connections" and add one in manually and try.
Ah, I see.  I figure it's something like that.  I just haven't yet been able to find where/how the thing that resumes finds the stuff in swap to verify that it's looking in the right place.
is your wireless network a hidden one by any chance? try create new wireless, or hidden wireless connection and see if that helps
There is nothing wrong with the wifi router it's all with the linux machine
read my previous two suggestions
if there was something wrong with the router I wouldn't be able to connect on this other pc
thanks for the suggestions pindropper
looking into it
i want to change the close botton of chrome to the right
for help
i am trying to figure out a way to execute a command on a double key press. Is this at all possible through bash? The keyboard shortcut mappings don't provide a way to capture double key presses.
trying text-based options 'vers=4,addr=192.168.10.41,clientaddr=192.168.10.80'" before it fails. How do I get it NOT to use nfs4??
wireless network is not hidden and I did try adding one manually
and...?
it never even gives me the button "connect"
it just gives me an add button and ok
and a delete etc
I never see the network listed and it's not hidden
will dd if=/dev/sda of=/dev/sdb copy the entire file systems in sda to sdb with boot sectors preserved?
I don't think the wifi card works with the OS
does it even attempt to connect? you know once you've added the network... does it try to connect?
think so
nope
considering sda and sdb are usb removable disks (pen drives)
did it ever work?
nope
what device is it, do you know?
What does the output look like with "iwconfig wlan0"?
ah . in that case there is a very good chance you need proprietary drivers. which you wont know until you connect. you might want to try connecting through a lan cable and get it to work.
jpk, but from what you said it appears that is not happening
whats iwconfig wlan0?
iwconfig is like ifconfig but for wireless I believe
it is a comman line.
iwconfig wlan0 will tell you the status of wlan0
ok
well it's almost impossible to get this machine hooked up wired
I could try but if theres any other way
what problem you have with wired?
the router is upstairs very far away from the box with no plugs and this box is built into a home theater system
where is a place to buy ubuntu 11.4 ???
ah ok
i know.. its a bit of a fix if you have problems with wired. but really, ubuntu will notify you of possible problems or updates once you connect. maybe a phone/usb/3g/edge sharing , even for 10 mins might help.
If you getnoting useful from iwconfig, do a google with "{name of wifi card} +ubuntu +driver +download"
pooltable, check ubuntu's website, they have resellers
there is no need to buy it, just download it when it is released
hmm you know what I'll give it a try
getnoting==get nothing
when you type iwconfig wlan0 what do you get?
I have a usb wifi stick and if that fails I'll take the time to get the computer up there
running in vmware? ?
one moment robert05ad I'll try that.
trying text-based options 'vers=4,addr=192.168.10.41,clientaddr=192.168.10.80'" before it fails. How do I get it NOT to use nfs4??
zvacet i just see 10.10 i want 11.4
I;ve heard that 10* is a little buggy in nfs.  Does anyone concur?
oh oh Lin, I know that answer... but not off the top of my head lol it's a mount option but i forget
11.04 isn't released yet as far as I know
I just removed my ubuntu from my VM machine so I cant help to remember it lol
waiting on 11.04
correct
none are released yet
cybrhuman i see
I have "nfs" not "nfs4" as my mount type.
Hey all. I'm out in New Zealand and it's the 28th, how do I get from Mav to Natty?
can someone help me real quick. I think i am doing something wrong with setting up my live USB
right lin
It's not released yet.
Whatcha doing?
shoot regretting removing it now..
just put a regular cd and install to the usb disk
try man mount
11.04 will be out today so you will have chance to buy it
But it's supposed to be out today yeah?
yeah Dibs
few hours yet
It's due out some time in the period that it's April 28th somewhere in the world.
I but 10.10 on a usb and use the usb install exe thats on the ubuntu.com/download page to set the usb up
depends on time zone  :)
all
sweet, anyone know where a countdown is
i use 7.04 fiesty fawn lol
when 10 came out we were all sitting in here until like 2 am lol, (central time)
but my computer is not recongizing it as a bootable usb
There is no set time, hence no countdown.
dammit, I was hoping to get an hour or two down time while I upgrade. Gah, will have to get back to work
I guess what I mean is some resume code goes, "let's see if there's an image in the old swap partition... oh, wait, it's not there anymore.  Oh well, just do a normal boot."  Then later on when something looks at the new swap partition, it sees an image in there and goes, "What's this crap?  We're doing a normal boot."  Then clears it out.  Or something.  My biggest enemy, here, is I don't know how resume works yet. :-P
lol dibs
Is upgrding using the update-manager -d risky? like it will use the same repo yeah?
I think that you need to explicitly copy the 0th sector from the cd (cdimage) to the usb.
what time was 10.10 out ?
Lin, ummm what?
jpk, did you leave the old swap partition unchanged, you could write a new filesystem on top of it
3 in the morning  Next stupid question.
i still prefer 7.04 lol
uncmar, whats your name?
Anyone got Mark's number, let's take this to the top
it is more lightweight
10.10 takes a lot of time to load
hey Lin, did you try mount -t nfs option?
!party
10.10 = 10 of 2010 or October.
instead of -t nfs4
my name is annoyed beyond belief, so.. Um.  wann come stay in my area.  we got lots of tornadoes to go, round and round fer ya.
no what time of the day ?
join #python
whoops
i know 11.4= 2011 apr
10.10= october 2010
uncmar, I am in kansas... im good lol
Hia
Banshee media player won't play files
Yes, I did...it still tries to force vers=4 onto the commandline.
Banshee media player won't play files, remains idle, why ?
sorry it is 2010 october
Banshee media player won't play files, remains idle, why ?
Yeah, besides unmounting/swapoff'ing it, I left it alone.
6.06 should have come out on 6.6.6  It would have been a triplet but  more impressive, 6-6 1947? was Doomsday.
Or rather, D-Day.
does any sound program work, or just banshee is busted?
Good evening everyone :)
hey is there a command to flush the cache
anyhow. pooltable I don't know what time of day any of the releases where. sorry.
just banshee it seems, i have to re import files to ake it work
little bit of topic don´t you think
which cashe?
Lin, can you check your queries
just banshee it seems, i have to re import files to make it work
jpk, i don't buy the proposed source of the error you suggested, but if you want to be sure i would make that and ext4 partition
cache of what?
shows idle stats atm
hi all
Queries??
ActionParsnip, my ram
nope, My 6.06 is currently broken, so right on the topic of why I'm here.
Hello Devil999
Lin, Yeah i sent you a query
do you mean swap space? If you flush the ram then the system will cease to be
how's it going? any news for 11.04?
why do you use unsupported version
{blush} not knowing what it was, I closed the tab.
Lin, sent again ^^
do you use server
because it was a running server.  that I didn't want to take time to upgrade.
Why is it when I listen the channels on XChat, I can't join anything? x.x
ActionParsnip, well after like today i had 146.00 gig in ram being used and only have 2 gig ram
spending a DAY to upgrade/revive a system from an upgrade attempt stinks.
any idea?
  free -m
is there any reason not to upgrade now
so, I just answered both questions with one answer.
ok
nope, Right out of ubuntu. though I must admint Ubuntu wasn't the reason for the failure.  *I AM*
*admit
Ah, I see.  I'll try that, then.
when it's high, rerun it
hi all...looking for a little hand holding using webmin to configure proftpd...all i want to do is allow a single user (not myself, or anonymous access to my /home/user/Pictures directory?
I'd switch to fedora or.. well, I could eventually think of another, but I'm not ready to do a near Complete relearn of tools.
you are only using 550Mb. You have 1884Mb available and have 1360Mb free
ActionParsnip, yes right now but as i do stuff it will rise maybe takes a day or two
Hola :)
Now I remember why I'm here.
if its only cache then its fine, unused ram is wasted ram
when building from source, and doing autogen.sh is there a way to force, and make it finish, regardless of missing dependancies?
just watch the right hand value on the "-/+ buffers/cache" line
of course I could attempt to poke around the net.  Need to know system requirements of 8.04 Live CD.  I won't dare attempt 9.04 or 10.04
that is the actual free ram
I'm limited to 256Mb of ram.
hhhhhhh
need help with my display only has one resolution
what time is the launch of Ubuntu 11.04 ?
Natty is not yet released and there is no predetermined time on the 28th when it will be. Await the release in #ubuntu-release-party or for more questions join #ubuntu+1
okey thank.!
Hmm, it is time for 11.04.  Time flies.  I hadn't give it any thought.
my video is intel 845ge built on board video
Wait.. I haven't been in the loop for a while. 11.04 is launching soon? :o
hello, can i update from 10.10 to 11.04 now, or do i have to wait until tomorrow?
My upgrade attempt from 8.04 to 10.04 exploded, so I moved over to debian.  Closer to the trunk of the tree for stability.  Low and behold I have another dead ubuntu.
KidDeath, it is supposed to launch tomorrow sime thme
time*
 sudo lshw -C display     websearch for the product line to find guides. You may need an xorg.conf to make it work ok
Fascinating, looks like I have something new to play around with. :)
:D
can someome tell me how to fix my display
the alternates are installs only?
drivers
ok
in the old days we would just smack the TV harder to fix the display. Or call the TV repair man.
lol @ uncmar
 * uncmar shuts up.  I've spotted enough ill manorred sarcasm for one day.
uncmar, or go to the hardware store and use their tube tester, which were geared to finding slightly poor tubes so as  to sell more  tubes.
hola amigos
trying text-based options 'vers=4,addr=192.168.10.41,clientaddr=192.168.10.80'" before it fails. How do I get it NOT to use nfs4??
... and yes, I use -t nfs, NOT -t nfs4.
"sudo apt-get dist-upgrade" doesnt work anymore???
It works fine here.
say what?..
any idea how long itll take before 11.04 is released?
A dist-upgrade will install new dependencies for packages already installed and may remove packages if they are no longer needed. Please see !upgrade for the proper way to upgrade to a new version of Ubuntu.
!11.04
Natty Narwhal is the codename for Ubuntu 11.04, due April 28 2011. Help and support (only) in #ubuntu+1. Natty is beta and is not currently intended for production systems.
^
Natty is not yet released and there is no predetermined time on the 28th when it will be. Await the release in #ubuntu-release-party or for more questions join #ubuntu+1
hmmm... i was using dist-upgrade in order to go from one version to another
!upgrade
how can i correct it?
i have to change *
with * I mean all the directories inside there
hey, can someone recommend me a good PPA for GIMP 2.7.2?
Hi
is there a way to know when Ubuntu Server 10.04 LTS has been installed ?
on a specific server
when or if?
not sure what  you're asking
for desktop we have installer.log
In ubuntu, is there any way to sync all files between two folders? As in, I want them to be exactly the same, and they mostly already are. Rather than recopying everything, is there a tool to just recopy whats changed?
Can someone recommend a good dock (docky,awn,cario-dock,etc)?
rsync can do that
NxtGenCowboy, i loke cario-dock
like*
hm, thanks
mknarr, I havent tried that one yet.. the last 2 I tried.. really had a good chunk of bugs when compiz was running
Ziber, i use Unison. I think it's simpler, and has GUI. Your choice!
hello
oi
when will 11.04 be available for download?
tomorrow some time
rsync works, thanks tho
i mean the 28th*
mknarr, what's the date there?
meisth0th, 27 8pm
Thu Apr 28 03:01:20 EEST 2011
hello. i am using some kind of irc client.
sdegutis, is that a question?
not really, no.
im writing it, too.
and im using it.
just thought id let you know.
ok, then...
where is the main premissions file located on ubuntu 10.04
You sure are.
thanks.
i try.
its not very good though.
can you elaborate? what are you looking for?
but thats ok because its mine.
Looks like it's working like a charm.
Any1 know when 11.04 is coming live?
Im looking for the file that holds all of the premissions  and or user group info
well, you arent on this side of it.
on this side its pretty crappy.
hi can someone tell me how i can get synaptic manager to start
Well, there is /etc/groups
its ui is largely html+css+jquery, even though its a desktop app.
sdegutis, that's really something. gratz.
well, not really.
usr13,  says it dosnt exsist
it doesnt work on ubuntu though.
Alt-F2 synaptic
you guys just talk a lot, which helps me look at my client :)
especially the scrolling and stuff
Well, there is /etc/group
Sorry, typo
Does Gwibber crap out for anyone after a few weeks?
sdegutis, sure thing... just stick around. a lot of talk going to happen.
usually
thanks :)
i like making useless stuff :(
I need to find an informative doc on how to work the user accs / groups ...
ph@Juliana:~$ sudo synaptic
not found
not found
Segmentation fault
man group
its say kde-config not found how can that be i am using gnome
when you send a msg to a channel which yo dont have permissions for (like ##linux whe you arent voiced), it gives your message a strikethrough
I seem to remember a website with deb packages for ubuntu. I tried installing ettercap-ng with the repos, but it errors out every time. I need that deb package or to install from source. Anyone know the name of the site?
man useradd          man groupadd
n/m I found it
That's useful
:) sometimes we jog our memory just by formulating questions.
What is the difference between the file "group" and "group-"
im guessing the one with the - is a backup?
Does 11.04 go live tonight?
right
it goes live the 20 sometime
woot
the 28***
kinda..
I cant wait
although it doesnt have private messaging yet
lolwut
i forgot it's so soon
What are the major changes for 11.04?
Well, get back to work!
    12 minutes ago"
They are widespread and often.
(...sorry, couldn't resist...)
plop
What's the time? (I'm in europe... ;))
lawl
im looking for a good command line sound processing tool.  something CLI like sox but im looking for a specific feature, very slight audio length expansion/contraction.  basically, i have an audio source that gets 1 second off sync of another one after ~4 hours.  this means i need 3.33 samples out of 48000 removed from the slower source.  does anyone know of a proggy that can help me do that
?
links work when using :// ? like apt://build-essential ?
europe spans MANY timezones
2:14
(... sorry, again, I couldn't resist...)
Would it matter if i edit the group file  to display eachgroup on a diff line ?
how long till 11.04 is out?
/usr/libgconf2-4/gconf-sanity-check-2exited with code 256 what is it and how do i fix it
... it kinda violates the spirit of the RFCs but dokuwiki thinks apt is a namespace if I don't use :// :(
they are already on separate lines.
hmm weird  i DLed the file from my server to look at it
and everything is on 1 line
ask in #ubuntu+1 natty isofftopic here
ActionParsnip, my timezone isn't important for my question :) Okay, let's ask a different way - When will Natty release in MY timezone (GMT+1)? :)
With what app. are you viewing it?
Sorry ;)
usr13, notepad
ask in #ubuntu+1 natty is offtopic here
 That is why.
notepad+ needs a linux build
i suppose you would have to toggle wordwrap on or of or something... I dono....
 hello room
 * itguru feels a bit excited ....
 * itguru runs date on cli
Im guessing that when im viewing the group  doc that if there isnt a usr/acc type beside a group it isnt in use?
Just another day in the life of a Ubuntu community....  :-)
It's THURSDAY!
Anybody know how to connect a logitech C210 webcam to ubuntu? I'm having nothing but headaches
what are you guy s up to and whats new on ubuntu
hammer
?
?
it's the day after WEDNESADY
Just means that no one has joined the group yet.
mknarr, could be in use on the fs though
welcome to the calendar
True, but *this* thursday is special :)
escott, aah true
true, but not yet
ie the root
hi everybody
/usr/libgconf2-4/gconf-sanity-check-2exited with code 256 what is it and how do i fix it
 yea that's right
 lsusb   use the 8 character hex id to find guides. Logitech refuse to support linux so I suggest you avoid their products
How much of a performance increase would i find if i installed a ssd in my desktop
i dont really use it for anything intense as it is
somebody use 3 monitor with 2 gpu on ubuntu?
Well, according to my calender, the position of the sun, and BBC News, I should be re installing all my test machines to 11.04 stable :)
reeceb, have you checked the v4l website
loading apps and the OS will improve
should i be making say a user called WEB for my web stuff and adding the group "www-data" to it ?
brb i will check newegg for prices
all that is moot, depends when the servers get updated
 * itguru hits F5 in his browser ...
Dammit! Still 10.10 !
lol
itguru, why not just update-manager -d
I'm just screwing around, I was kinda hoping that this time it woulda happened at midnight, but hey
11.04 here ;)
lsusb sees the camera but I don't know how to get to it
no worries, been running beta for weeks
!?
reeceb, and you have v4l installed
 * itguru hits F5 rapidly
thats just the ID, use it to find uides
Where you at Actionparrship so I can get it too lol
while true; do date; sleep 1; done
*guides
reeceb, cheese
I just installed ubuntu this last week for an embedded systems project so I'm still learning the terminal stuff
I'm not sure if I have V4l installed
reeceb install synaptic sudo apt-get synaptic, and then use it to install cheese and the v4l2 tools
oem is gone...?
hehe! nice! But sleep is for wimps - i'm gonna have all my desktop users asking me where is the awesome new interface that I've been rubbing in their faces on my dell tablet for weeks
reeceb, also check the v4l website to see if your camera version is supported
Sweet. Thanks guys. I'll start there.
somebody know how configure 2 gpu and 3 monitor? i will install natty, but i dont know about that :(
please don't away like that
16gb?
somebody know how configure 2 gpu and 3 monitor? i will install natty, but i dont know about that :(
you can get a 32 gig usb drive lol
I've had it since alpha 2
oh ok
I just bought the vertex 2 160, looove it
should have waited on the vertex 3 lol
oh noes, its the 28th!
not yet basso
for me it is! :D
i need a little help setting up conky. I understand how to create a .conkyrc config file. but i downloaded a setup that is in LUA format and it tells me to put it in ~/.conky (but i dont see a .conky file in my home file)
your in good company, we're all waiting :)
^^
somebody know how configure 2 gpu and 3 monitor? i will install natty, but i dont know about that :(
KaAtta, I have no idea what that even is lol
brisky83, thats a rather exotic configuration, are these ati or nvidia
KaAtta, you gotta make a .conkyrc file
Captainkrtek, whats up man
the file needs creating, you ca find sample files on the web
hiexpo, hte conky setup i downloaded is in lua format, and it wants me to place it in the .conky directory. which is supposed to be in my user folder, but im not seeing it
i have 2 ati, in a mainbord asus rog formula IV
 * itguru believes the digital gates should be opened according to the nasa time servers date!
hey mknarr
3870 and 4850 ati
just got home from work
ati is notoriously bad for linux support.
.conkyrc is a file, not a folder
those wont sli brisky
usb wouldnt be faster then SATA ssd
Is there documentation that explains how to use OpenLDAP utilities with OpenSSL instead of GnuTLS?
KaAtta, when you create a file with . first it is hidden so open open folder click view and than show hidden files
ActionParsnip, i linked the URL i was going off of, could u take a look and see if u can understand what it wants form me?
hiexpo, i have enabled hidden folders already
KaAtta, should be .conkyrc down towards the bottom
there's a method listed on the page above
i read about bad on ati supporting linux, i dont use crossfire, and i dont need it, i will not gaming on it, but i use 2 gpu for use 3 monitor
ActionParsnip, i know conky very well   :)
if you read the link, it gives instructions to run, so conkyrc isnt needed
but when i try it on maverik i becoma mad with it and came back on win7, but i love natty on my netbook and i want use on big pc
hes not trying to crossfire
hiexpo, ActionParsnip qin i figured it out guys, i had to create a folder and paste the lua into it
there was no previous folder, i had to create the directory. its working now :D
acicula, brisky83  ok. my connection dropped
you may have to run xorg  on each card, so no unified desktop
ActionParsnip, ya that is silly using lua
thanks but i dont care about crossfire, i only want 3 monitor in mutliscreen
brisky83, i think acicula is right. i don't know if xinerama would work, but you could run two different x servers on different cards
it works so I don't argue with it
KaAtta, why you using lua ?
hi guys i need a an information,the realese about ubuntu 11.04?
Conky is configured using lua.
hiexpo, i was googling "conky configs" with a time filter of hte last year, and i saw that setup that was pretty
hiexpo, so i wanted
acicula i read about it, cinerama on maverick wont work :( but i read to start 2 xconfig with single card everytime , and copy on 1 after all that
ask in #ubuntu+1
when will be available 11.04 ?
Jordan_U, yes but not hard to make your own rc file
When it's ready.
actionparnip:thnks man
arand, when will be ready xD ?
thanks i save it, and i will try after i download the dayly natty, im a "newbie" but i really love use ubuntu also in desktop pc
i remember using xinerama before, it can be a bit fiddly and dont know if you can configure it using a desktop wizard either, so can be a bit fiddly
Before 29th
oh is natty released?
im downloading the daily of 27/04 i guess is the same of official of today
arand, but i saw schedule and its written 28th :S
do I have to upgrade to 10.10 before I can upgrade to natty? (now 10.04)
Yes
You can install 11.04 fresh
10.04 LTS?
arand, thanks
um, 10.04 - is there more than one kind?
no there isnt
stay on 10.04 its the better one to be on
this one ssfdre38 - You are using Ubuntu 10.04 LTS
                - the Lucid Lynx - released in April 2010 and supported until April 2013.
	
!isitout
It's out soon! Join #ubuntu-release-party and await release with the other excited folks :D
oh ssfdre38 that's easy. at what point would I move onto 10.10 ?
the next LTS is out
how can i export database of banshee ?
isnt 10.10 stable?
10.04 its good for 3 years of support
actually released?
10.10 and 11.04 gets 18 months of support
LTS just means its supported for a longer period, and supposedly a little more stable then the usual intermediary versions
~/.config/banshee-1/banshee.db
i mean.. it is a simple dist-upgrade
next LTS is 12.04
that's an sqlite3 database that you can use if you're so inclined
10.04 moo betta Macer
hiexpo, nice, but thats a bit too complicated for my girlfriend lol
does unity have betterfonts, clearer, sharper?
bloopletech, and to restore? only paste in the same place?
KaAtta, 10.04 is too complicated for your girlfriend?
KaAtta, only took me 30 minutes to make it
I believe so
!party
assuming you're on the samish version of banshee
tripelb, no he was talking bout my conky
O
O
tripelb, there is a new font, but you shouldn't have blurry fonts have you tried adjusting your subpixel rendering options
you can configure how fonts look on your current system (and I assume on unity)
I'm still asking questions about how to partition my gynormous (1T) hard drive so that I can have 2 different ubuntus. I am also still asking about how to copy files from one ubuntu (one one hard drive) to another. I cant sign in on both and I am stuck.
bloopletech, yes :) but.. if the place of music change but this have the same name no problem??
System -> Preferences -> Appearance, then the Fonts tab. If you're using an LCD then turn Subpixel rendering on and then tweak it by clicking Details...
nite everybody
I'm not sure, it might store absolute paths in the database
bloopletech, escott, unless it will get better on reboot I've configured all there is to configure and it's better on windows. I dont want windows, I want fonts I can see with more ease.
bloopletech, I am using a CRT.
you're going to have to be a lot more specific than it's 'better on windows'
oh, than turn subpixel off
hiexpo, nice, ill link u what im going with once im done customizing it
bloopletech, im going to try in this moment :P
try grayscale
bloopletech, I can read it there. here I have to make it bigger. -- I turned it on 2 days ago and it made no differnce.
I like color I dont want to go back to before the amiga.
you are dissing me by saying that.
what
nevermind.
I meant grayscale font smoothing
is this server's full of programmers?)
oh. ok
not grayscale display
nah, but I'm a programmer.
because subpixel rendering is designed for lcd's so it won't work very well on crt
escott and others, thanks a ton. I'm up and running with cheeze now I'm just wondering how to directly access the video feed for processing
hi
reeceb, its /dev/video0 but v4l does lots of nice stuff (like flipping my upside down camera the right way)
» uncmar » the most of channels are linux, ubuntu etc.. O_o ))
subpixel, things smaller than pixels?  what are those, pixels below pixels so that when you scale up it looks pretty?
KaAtta, kk
bloopletech, thanks for the help. I'm too tired to remember how to get there now.
WRT your other questions, the easiest way to partition your drives is probably to burn a livecd, boot into that and use gparted to divide your drive in half - though you may want swap partitions for each installation
reeceb, i would recommend using gstreamer to get the stream, or look at the v4l docs there may be bindings for popular languages
gstreamer?
a red a green and a blue one
isn't it great?  Linux is taking over.  Well, at least becoming a bit more popular.
and how do I get to dev/video0
» uncmar » yup, man, you're right =)
subpixel rendering means controlling the individual lights to achieve a better result
reeceb, media framework included in gnome. what do you want to do with your camera video? and what language do you want to use?
greetings; what are some ways to set up my hard disk partitions?
Just now was the first time I joined this channel since last year,  or maybe I joined once earlier this year or something
hopefully C and do some minor vision detection with openCV
revButl, are you asking for suggested partition layouts or tools to partition
suggested partition layouts please
eh, CRT's display with the same RGB combo.  Hence, 24 bit color.  8 bits per the trio.
well no
I have openCV installed and am using Harpia to prototype my algorythms but my end target system is a beagleboard
revButl, how many disks do you have, how much space, what are your goals/uses for the system, how would you prioritize things like backups vs performance vs flexibility
crts work by projecting beams through a phosphor coating at the screen
reeceb, see if someone has codesamples for openCV and v4l2 im sure its been done many times
Why was Grub2 v1.97 and not just 2.0?
if you go Places -> Computer your other drive sohuld be there and you should be able to double click it to access the files on that drive
au-contrarian, 2.0 hasn't been released yet, but they really liked the features and thought it was stable enough
decreasing emphasis on flexibility, data recovery, then performance; i have one hard disk with about 50 gigs over half a terabyte with about half a terabyte designated for windows
how can i close banshee if when i close it if i using integration with my sound menu?
So Grub2 isn't really Grub2, it's Grub1.97
» uncmar » by the way, I'd just want to find english-speaking channel/server.. When I came here, I've got very amazed of Linux's popularity )
au-contrarian, no it is grub2 version 1.97
viva 11.04
revButl, i would suggest making a smaller partition ~15-20gigs for your operating system and configuring it as raid1 mirrored across the two disks with mdadm
hiexpo, didnt forget about u, i got terminal running a package update, taking a few minutes before i can load up my new conky config
revButl, for the rest of the disk i would have raid1 as well, and use that for your larger files, if you outgrow the storage you can either buy more or go into a raid1 degraded mode and free a half-terabyte
oh sorry i have integrated my banshee with my sound menu and i never can close it :( how can i close?
revButl, and don't forget a bit for swap space
Huh. I'm on a live CD, installing ubuntu. Installer seems to be just sitting at 79%, not looking like its doing much
why does banshee not work with ipod?
what works with ipod
is the current heuristic for swapspace to be 2x the amount of memory you have still?
!countdown
revButl, im sure you can get many other opinions
it does work with most ipods, what ipod do you have?
a mac or windows.  but, linux?  I don't know.  I won't buy an ipod.
shuffle
It's out soon! Join #ubuntu-release-party and await release with the other excited folks :D
escott, hiexpo - thanks.
what happens when you try to sync?
open a terminal and do killall -9 banshee - that will forcibly terminate banshee
it does nto see it
au-contrarian, welcome np
does it mount it as a device in the file manager?
au-contrarian, those gnu people tend to be a little picky about having all the details right with unimportant stuff like a bootloader ;)
i don't want to configure my computer so that i lose education or entertainment potential; i just remember Ubuntu putting about 5 partitions on my hard disk;
no
also.. what ipod shuffle? the latest one?
no
What should I do if my installer just seems to sitting at a certain percentage (in this case, 79%)... Seemingly not doing anything.
it should work just fine.. i hate to ask.. is it plugged in?
revButl, you only need 2
revButl, thats not really necessary, its a throwback from the old days of unix sysadmins when each disk was 10megs
you can just make a main partition and a swap partition - it's not really special how you configure it and it won't change your entertainment potential
revButl, 90% of people have 2 (/ and swap) some add a couple more for /home or /boot
ok thanks guys
jajja bloopletech thanks never thought of it :D
also, you can resize and add partitions later if you want
it's not 2000 anymore :D
np
yes
when is natty releasing?
now
sometime in the next 24hours probablky
escott- then name is just maddening.  There is Grub, I get that, and that never really had a version 1, it just went up to 0.97 - and then they decide to release Grub2 but that is version 1.97 - seriously WTF?  They could have at least called Grub2 v1.0
How long should "creating user" really take when installing ubuntu? Has been sitting at that in the installer for about 5 mins now.
not released yet!
not a fixed time?
no
au-contrarian, its understandable it is a bootloader and all
I think they leave it flexible in case there are last minute issues
Ok..
au-contrarian, it could have a version number like latex which is always fun
suddenly my comp is running slow
what should i do??
induz, what has changed
you can join #ubuntu-release-party if you like and await 11.04
 nothing has changed
hello
induz, see if anything is using cpu in gnome-system-monitor
Start -> System -> Administration -> Task Manager
sounds nice! thanks
then click the cpu column to sort desecending
KaAtta, what is that desktop widget
hey türk olanvarmı
also try clicking the memory column and sort decending to see if something's taking up all your ram
np
Why would my install seemingly stop... installing and just sit at 79%?
hey türk olanvarmı
hey türk olan varmı
escott which? the guages?
Ziber, can you click on details anywhere
nope...
KaAtta, yes the "speedometer" for cpu
KaAtta, pretty kool you using kde huh
hiexpo, no, using gnome, 10.10
Ziber, what was the last thing it said it was doing, or is it just a progress bar?
why?
is there anyway i can find what r the processes running
Progress bar, 79%, "creating user..."
 most of the processes r sleeping
escott, that is conky, i just installed it and configured it using a setup i found online
 but available swap is just 3%
KaAtta, cool
something is chewing your ram
ps aux
try sorting by memory usage descending
Ziber, have you already entered your username info? wondering if there is a popup somewhere behind a window
I already have, came before it.
that is gnome KaAtta oh with bar on bottom forgot what that is called looks like kde   but now that i look at i know
no other window associated with it.
the bar im using is cairo-dock
bloopletech, yes all you say is true. I can access them. I cannot copy them because I dont have permission. when I log into the other drive I cannot even see my normal filesystem. I can only see the filesystem I am on and 2 windows partitions and one NTFS partions. (I have 3 drives mounted.)
im still trying to figure out how to get composite to work on my LDXE setup, been trying for days
cant get any help in lubuntu channel
Ziber, can you run stuff from the live cd, namely the system monitor and see if anything is happening
any help with a intel 845ge video card on board i found nothing to help in google
hi all...if in proftpd, i want to create a user, and lock them into a directory, say like /home/user/Pictures, do I have to create that user in ubuntu (cli or otherwise?)
where would i find that? slightly new to ubuntu.
ps aux throws a list of % CPU and i dont know what to do with them
KaAtta, oh ok that lbuntu  not gnome
ah I see. To deal with the permissions issue you may be able to run gksudo nautilus and copy the files in that window
I'm not sure why you can't see the partition from the other installation
hiexpo, the screentshot is gnome, i ALSO have another machine running lubuntu, but i cant get composite to work on it
netmsi, when you install proftpd it should create a user for the app, the restriction bit is part of the proftpd config, there is a gui for proftpd as well
hi everybody i`m in such a big problem i have intented to remove a libusb package but instead i have pressed libusb* then all dependant package are removed how can i fix this?/?
Is there a way to determine if I am running Ubuntu 32 or 64 bit?
how can i make it run fatser as earlier??
uname -a
KaAtta, lookslike lkde to me but ok
Ziber, did you boot the live cd to the desktop environment then start the install or did you just take the first install option
escott, i tried gadmin, and it seems like webmin is just as viable as an option, but what if i want to create user other than the default?
bloopletech, I copy what you say and do it another day. Peace. Thanks a lot for working with me.
I'm having trouble setting the PS1 variable as a non-root user. \u doesn't give the proper output. When I set my variable with PS1='\u\$', I get exactly that as my prompt.
Go to the task manager, sort by memory usage descending then click the top item and click kill process
np
KaAtta, nevermind   i didnt scrol up   lol
hiexpo, the screenshot is gnome, 10.10, all i have done is changed background, added the dock, added conky, and removed bottom panel
that is it lol
repeat until success
It returns 2.6.32-31-generic-pae #61-Ubuntu SMP Fri Apr 8 20:00:13 UTC 2011 i686 GNU/Linux
hai
you're 32-bit
netmsi, you could do that but there are various things you have to be aware of like, making sure the user has /dev/null as their shell and some pam stuff, better to use the suggested user
Thank you. I appreciate it.
np
where can i locate the covert art of the song is playing rigth now? im using banshee2.0
hai
oi!!1
its getting better now
what??
do i have to perform this KILL process everytime
i love yiou
anybody know what time natty goes live?
no
there is no set time
k
oi
oi
oi
escott, so multiple users are not advisable? what if i need three separate users each with their own direct.?
only if a program is doing something wrong and using memory badly
not usually
netmsi, you can only have one service on a single port
KaAtta, should use 10.04 did you look what kernal i was using   :)
netmsi, so proftpd has to run as someone, and various restrictions should be put around that user, which they do by default, so that if someone does intrude into proftpd the damage they can do is minimal
what's wrong with the video at the moment? is the resolution too low or...
i didnt
super fast
escott, but it supports multiple connections (forgive the ignorance)?
hiexpo, i really wanna try 11.04 but i cant get the beta to boot for me if my life depended on it
^ KaAtta
bloopletech, its getting a bit better by killing some of the processes
bloopletech, yes, thats what it is.
hello
try going to System -> Preferences -> Monitors
KaAtta, leave 11.04 alone 10.04 has better support
escott, maybe i'm using the wrong word when i say users..multiple logins?
see if it will let you increase the resolution
upgraded from 10.04 to 10.10 and only have one resolution
I need some help with a realtek driver
bloopletech, but i really dont know what i am killing as names are not familiar except few like mozila and thunderbird
netmsi, give me a sec to confirm what i am saying is true ;)
can any budy hekp me??
true, it is a bit risky
escott, thank you..
I mean if you're not sure, rebooting should sort it out
KaAtta, always better to stay with the lts versions    :)
Realtek Driver any here body out there who can help??
bloopletech, I tried that, but it seems i dont have any driver installed maybe? would there be a program by nvidia if i did?
you have an nvidia chipset?
george, sure what chipset ?
ive used 10.10 more then anything and to be honest, right now im loving it. im pretty new to linux and im having a fairly easy time figuring it out
i have no idea?
is boult in
hiexpo,  i really wish my othe rmachine was capable of running 10.10
bloopletech, yes
the driver that nvidia supplies, and a new open-source driver built by the community
KaAtta, 10.04 can do more   :)
I'd suggest maybe trying both if you're not sure - I don't have nvidia so I can't recommend which one
let me link you
question is, will it run smoothly on my other machine?
what's the benefit of 10.04?
george, not a usb ?
my other machine has issues running 10.10 but runs lubuntu 10.10 just fine
bloopletech, Im sure i have nvidia, but i dont know exactly what i have in this laptop, if that makes any sense lol
escott, ok...i think i understood that answer..you'll have to forgive, am just learning about ftp..still hasnt quite coalesced methinks
netmsi, so when proftpd gets a connection request it authenticates against a list of usernames which need not be real users of the server (without a account or /home, so the only thing they can do is ftp), and then forks and processes their requests
yeah np. DO you know what version of ubuntu you have installed?
hypetech, you can hack t better   :)
install virtualbox 4.0.6 with ubuntu 11.04, but /etc/init.d/vboxdrv is missing. Anyone please?
hypetech, and it lts
netmsi, if you want a service for people who have accounts on the server already consider ssh and sftp
oh you want to virtualmachine Ubuntu 11.04?
hiexpo, what does LTS stand for?
escott, yes, that was my question...so how do i create those accounts (not on the server, just for ftp purposes?
LTS means Long Term Support. LTS versions of Ubuntu will be supported for 3 years on the desktop, and 5 years on the server. The current LTS version of Ubuntu is !Lucid (Lucid Lynx 10.04)
KaAtta, long term support
wrong channel, sorry
bloopletech, the cd that he gave me was blank, but i think its 9.04. I thought if i installed all the updates it might fix it, but it didnt
I can link you to some proper instructions on how to virtual machine 11.04
netmsi, its part of the proftpd config haven't done it in some time though
no hiexpo is a built in to a toshiba
hiexpo, sebsebseb ty both
actsaully I think for a virtual machine of 11.04, even though 11.04 isn't out just yet, this channel would be sort of ok, because you could be virtual machining it with a previous version of Ubuntu,  as host,  and you could with another distro as host as well
ok, you have a couple options. You can upgrade your ubuntu to a later version (which is different to installing the updates); this is probably a good idea anyway as 9.04 is a few years old now
KaAtta, i boot in 32 secs   :)
netmsi, ftp is discouraged for a lot of reasons, if you can use ssh and sftp thats better
escott, i don't mind figuring it out myself, but what is that login called in proftpd? 'user', 'account', etc.?
escott, thanks again. I've found some stuff online and I'm callin' it for the evening. Take it easy
reeceb_, np
george, ok you need to get the info of it and i can probally help you than
ok
netmsi, virtual users i think
escott, unfortunately not...the people i want to share file w/ are not technical...i can set them up w/ a ftp client, they can hang..
hi is there a way to get apt-get to tell me how many updates are available?
"There is a problem with the configuration server. (/usr/lib/libgconf2-4/gconf-sanity-check-2 exited with status 256"
escott, cool...
 let me see if i can toshiba drivers for win 7 dose not have info on the chipset only on the units compatible
auxin... try sudo apt-get update
the current Long Term Support release of ubuntu is 10.04 lucid, and the latest version is 10.10 maverick
bloopletech, ok. guess it was worth the try cause i learned a few thing but ill just have to do a fresh install of a later distro. thanks for the help though :)
although 11.04 natty is coming out in the next day or so ;)
Ziber, you still waiting on that install
ok -though you can upgrade ubuntu over the internet if you want
reves, hmm no that doesnt work, thanks though
hi, natty beta 2 install freezes after i click next on the screen where you specify whether you want to download updates / install restricted stuff.  anyone else seen this before?
assuming you have a decent internet connection
Im looking for something like aptitudes $aptitude search ~U
but only for apt-get
bloopletech, maybe ill just wait for 11.04, might be worth it
i tried both normal and alternate install iso
apt-cache search
<hiexpo> u think i can run the driver with WINE???
george,   f   <     wine
MacGyverNL, excellent, thanks!
Yw.
Intel Corporation Core Processor DRAM Controller (rev 02)
Toshiba America Info Systems Device fd00
bus master, fast devsel, latency 0
<access denied>
agpgart-intel
intel-agp
george,  give me output of that command
Why wont my partition mount, i can't even force mount it
is there any other way to mount it
Which partition?
Are you sure it's not alreday mounted?
Its not
its my other hard disk
Is it listed in fstab?
whats that
Ok, I want to give my kids read only access to the Music samba share, but I want my wife and I to have read/write access...how do I set that up, please?
groups
RedLance, if your wife and kids are the only users on the system then put your wife and you in a group say "parents" and chgrp the directory and all contents to "parents"
man addgroup  man group
RedLance, then revoke w permission from other
its /dev/sda2
FloodBot is not sentient.
escott, in the proftpd.conf file, is has a commented out template for an anonymous login..just copy that and make the appropriate changes?
Ok, thanks everybody!
so can any help me??
netmsi, that would be for anonymous (no password login) so if thats what you want sure
Drivers do not work in Wine
You would have to mount it with admin priviledges, (unless you specify that users can in the /etc/fstab file)
or commmercial versions that are sold, for that matter
I do mount it with admin privileges
o crap
do you want me to pastebin the error I get?
so what can u do?
that might help
Yes
george, i told you what to do   run that command in the terminal so i know what chipset it has
escott, def. not...but that configuration works for adding a user, and adding a password or psswd line to the file, or is a waste going that route?
and with  hardware it depends on the dsitro, if it just works or doesn't,  in general Linux distro's tend to work quite well with pretty standard PC hardware though. and hiexpo can probably help you properly :)
Does it change anything if I admit that the wife and kids access the samba server with Windows?  I use Ubuntu of course, and the samba server is Ubuntu too.  Are groups still the way to go?
netmsi, the key thing is you want them to have the least priviliged access to the system, preferably nobody or guest
sure if set up right for Samba, you can do what you want, not sure how to do that myself though
fron the board is an intel
?
escott, gotcha...it's just the mechanics that are screwing me up..
netmsi, but you don't actually want to put a password on nobody or guest, and then have ftp passing that around in the clear, so I would put a password in the AuthUserFile for "nobody" and then tell them to login with that password and see if you can make that work.
netmsi, understandable ftp is screwed up
gconf-snaity-check-2 exited with code 256...it says i have no internet but i do, i can't update..things close randomly..how do i fix this
sanity
That's great, but I do not see the command you used that generated the error.
;;bc,mtgox
 * hiexpo george I know wifi  I am a aircrack-ng guy   :)  
ok let me redo it
Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset HECI Controller (rev 06)
is there a direct upgrade from 10.10 to 11.04 that you can do?
can't get anything from the repo's anymore?
Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset HECI Controller (rev 06)
yes, but wait untill the final is out first, oh and if you do it on release day it may be rather slow to do
escott, thanks so much...gonna go try some things out..most probably be back ...but appreciate immensely...
netmsi, if you want it to be pretty you can put a different name on the nobody UID in that AuthUserFile and then they can signin as mrrogers if that makes more sense
i dont know what to get..sudo apt-get reconfigure isnt working either
also since 11.04 get's a major interface change with Unity,  you may want to keep 10.10 a while longer
netmsi, you could probably have a bunch of different aliases all to nobody's UID with their own password
or dare I say it here :D look into some other distro
Tomorrow you will be ble to.
or get 11.04 but use a different desktop/window manager
also soon after 11.04 comes out, Canonical will have a web thing, so people can try in a web browser
escott, and would those alias each map to a separate direct.?
o what? try it in a web browser, sebsebseb ?
it is version 10.04
yes,  it will be Unity 2D thought no Unity 3D, but nearly the same thing, other then that yep like as if you had installed 11.04
10.04 LTS?
anyone here can help me with a wifi driver
Yes
really?.. i hadn't heard that, thats pretty awesome
netmsi so nobody is 65534, you could have alice:65534\nbob:65534\ncharlie:65534 in your AuthUserFile (if I am understanding what I am reading correctly)
Probably.  Tell us what wifi device you have.
I read it on at least one site, maybe two even
very cool.. that takes "trying linux" to a whole new level.. don't even have to burn a cd
i don't know.....i have not used it....
should be good yeah,  get people to try Unity like that first,  instead of them doing the upgrade, and then regretting it :d
i am using 10.10
unity rocks
indeed exactly
i kind of agree there.. i like unity, but my old laptop just couldn't handle it
right, but since it's a virtual machine or whatever on a Canonical server, then I guess like that, should work with old computers even, since they aren't running it
also Unity 2D may work with your old computer, but that's only a ppa for 11.04
sudo apt-get dpkg-reconfigure reports invalid
didn't care for unity-2d... so i just went xubuntu.. really happy with it.. i hadn't really used xfce4.. i like it.
but how would you get 2d?
usr13,  that didnt do anything i ran it in terminal
so will it be ok to upgrade from 10.10 to 11.04? or would i be better off reformatting with 11.04
yeah XFCE is nice, but it's nice in loads of distro's not just Ubuntu :)
Xubuntu even, above
lspci  #And just look for it.
and send us that line.
Decision, wireless not ireless
no ireless not wireless
I think Unity 2D is 11.04 only, also technically since, 11.04 isn't out just yet, the channel to talk about this would be #ubuntu+1
usr13, 0_o
i formatted and wiped my drive so i would wait for the upgrade just to be safe
I left off the W on purpose.
and 11.10 will probably use Unity 2D as the fall back intead of Gnome 2, since they will be using Gnome 3 underneath Unity for that one :D
where do crontab files live?
Gotcha
ezl, root crontab is in /etc/cron*
but you can see it via    crontab -l
ezl, user cron files in /var/local/cron?
i use a laptop with only 2gig of RAM but 250 gig of Drive space
Hi everyone.
and i am using Beta 2 for 11.04
Unity 2D ppa search Google for that, that omgubuntu link,   how they said to install it,  that should do it :)  oh and Gnome Shell is the way to go really, but no proper Gnome 3 with Gnome Shell experience as an option untill 11.04 it seems.  There's a ppa for 11.04, but not the  ful experience.
And sup, newguy
hi, I just installed ubuntu 10.10 64 bit on an asus ul50vt laptop and went to update the nvidia driver, now when i restart I'm getting it hanging at the "checking battery state" message
above I meant to put 11.10 for Gnome 3 proper expereince
i'm pretty new to linux so i'm not really understanding what to do here
as an option
  crontab -e     #To edit
Is your laptop plugged in?
how did you install the Nivida driver?
it's not right now
see above what I said about Gnome 3 by the way :)
again, gotcha..
i just clicked on "additional drivers" when i started ubuntu up for the first time and installed it through what popped up there
Was just curious.... :D
some other distro's already doing Gnome 3, and Fedora 15 will soon when it's released, and yeah.
i did that figured  oit
ok that should have worked really
i actually tried gnome shell... didn't really care for it.. (it was a bit buggy for me).. but i did try the live CD for Open Suse, which had Gnome 3.. and it was very good.. i'm guessing when Gnome 3 PROPERLY hits ubuntu 11.10, it will be much better
usr13,  its a realtek
,but really you don't need the  propritary driver installed in 10.10, unless you want some compiz effects, or a few 3D games,  11.04 which will come out pretty soon from now,  well things are a bit differnet there,  because the 3D version of the new Unity interface needs a propritary driver or experimental 3D driver.  in fact if you only just put 10.10 on a lap top, I would suggest waiting untill a bit later and then putting 11.04 on.
hmmm......
sebsebseb, what video card he have ?
nvidia
oh okay.  how do I remove it now that i've installed it? lol
11.04 come out TOMORROW!!! {crapping excited!!!} xD
add the nvidia repos   :)
miiike, since this froze up on battery state have you tried booting while plugged in
so is #ubuntu-release-party!
how long guys?
YEA!!!!
!isitout
It's out soon! Join #ubuntu-release-party and await release with the other excited folks :D
yeah I just tried it and it does the same thing when plugged in
Did you just barely install??
miiike, whatnvidia card is it ?
GeForce G210M
was a new install? I had a simmilar problem and reinstalled and it worked out fine
its an asus ul*c right. does that have switchable graphics? is it a core i-series
miiike, wow thats old   >   you scraped the dust off with a chain saw   :)
yeah i just installed it clean a few minutes ago
i have no idea, a friend just gave me this laptop lol
hiexpo, i think they spun the 210s into a mobile low power variant, its actually pretty new iirc
miiike it maybe a bad install. Try again and see what happens
miiike, you might also see if you have switchable graphics options in the bios and explicitly selecting one
why ktorrent
dl so slow
codex maybe you didn't forward your port?
miiike, did you go to /system/admin/hardwaredrivers   >   and no pripority drivers for it ?
i agree with escott, see if that is that case BEFORE reinstall
:D
hey guys, is it possible to setup a connection to openvpn without installing a 3rd party client?
escott, okay i'll look
is forwared
hiexpo, no i didn't, i'm still just kind of trying to learn my way around linux, this is my first time playing with it so i don't really know too much of what i'm doing
even sudo apptitude is telling me there is no drive "e" when i try to re-install libs
what is the command to reconfigure ubuntu?
ubusammyn150, ubuntu doesn't use drive letters
usr13,  so what  do i need to do i can get the realtek driver for linux
yea it does
ubusammyn please specify "reconfigure ubuntu"
lol
usr13, no idea how to instal it though
a .tar.bz2 file
and it really doesn't use them :)
like sudo apt-get dpkg-reconfigure is not working what is wrong?
miiike, go there and open that dir   first and see if there is a pro driver there if so click it and it will say not in use click it and use it
anyone know what is the best tv viewer for tv tuner card with philips chip on it ?
ubusammyn150, sudo apt-get install program-name-goes-here
just do sudo dpkg-reconfigure <package>
hiexpo, how do i get there? it hangs everytime i try and start my laptop
Usually, there is no single "best" application to perform a given task. It's up to you to choose, depending on your preferences, features you require, and other factors. Do NOT take polls in the channel. If you insist on getting people's opinions, ask BestBot in #ubuntu-bots.
what if i want to reconfigure everything
miiike, hmm
you reinstall ubusammyn
wth is libacme-brainfuk-perl?
orry squall your ignored
Oo
You have installed nvidia driver and you don't have gui any more?  Is that your situation?
soo what exactly would i type...the entire name of the os kernal version?
ubusammyn150, brainfuck is a programming language known for being very hard to understand. used more as a challenge for programmers
usr13, i just installed ubuntu, and installed that nvidia driver, and now when my laptop starts up it gets to "checking battery state" and hangs there
miiike, push esc button on boot and see it you can boot in safe mode
how do i install torrents?
ubusammyn150, you will have to explain more what you mean "reconfigure"
so you can not login?
linuxdemon, you don't install torrents
Describe the screen.
usr13, nope, i can't do anything, it just stops at the black screen
hiexpo, i'll try that
i know that i download them but i have yet to figure out how to install the programs
miiike, good luck   :)
libgconf2-4 gconfsanity?? is reporting error 256
how do we connect remotely?
linuxdemon, we can't really help you install a program you downloaded off a torrent. we don't even know what it is
Ctrl-Alt-F6
im trying to install parallels
linuxdemon, when you download them click open with and should be default transmission
miiike try shift too, to get the grub menu
unknown terminal type.
(Hold Ctrl and Alt keys while hitting    F6
anyone getting this on 10.10
And then login...
piracy discussion and other questionably legal practices are not welcome in the Ubuntu channels. Please take this discussion elsewhere or abstain from it altogether. This includes linking to pirated software, music, and video. Also see !guidelines and !o4o
usr13, that worked to log me in, i don't really know what to do from there though
i want to repair version 10.04 via terminal...
the entire os
not just one package or module
jeremymcs, where are you getting this problem
Now what error were you getting?
ubusammyn150, have you tried virtualbox?
Hey... I have a question - how does unity compare to gnome 3?
Hi all, is it safe to use the gui frontend to APT (synaptic?) and CLI APT mixed?
hi... wanted to ask if it is worth migrating to btrfs at this stage
some packages are installed virtually and should not be
usr13, i wasn't getting a specific error, it would just hang when it got to "Checking Battery State" when it was booting
lucus, no not really
whenever i type something, lol
wth does virtualbox have anything to do with what i'm trying to do?
it  doesnt
jeremymcs, its probably something in your .bashrc did you mess with that
So this was right after install?
ubusammyn150, sorry confused you with linuxdemon
nope
=/
clean install, out of box ive gotten this on 2 machines
MrBean, yes
usr13, i installed it and it started up with no problems, then i went to "additional drivers" and it suggested an nvidia driver, so i installed that and restarted and since i restarted it's been hanging at the battery message
jeremymcs, its something about the terminal client you are using. it is reporting itself as xterm-new instead of xterm, and that is causing problems in the bashrc or somewhere
term is set for xterm-new .. and it gets that error
ls /etc/X11/xorg.conf
was thinking about all those goodies about subvolumes and compression. Seems a good scenario for dualbooting and installing other distros on the same partition. Is it very unstable at the moment?
What does that ^^^ say?
error", but if I boot through a thumb drive I can get into ubuntu fine.  Is there a way to fix the bootloader without doing a full reinstall?
linuxdemon, try virtualbox legal, no torrents and in the apt archive
i have two questions...how does unity compare to gnome and also is wine the best windows emulator
just says "
"/etc/X11/xorg.conf"
lucus, yeah... except for the random fsck errors when you get more than 15 subvolumes, and the slowness using firefox, and the unrecoverability from errors its great!
thanks
sudo  rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf ; sudo  /etc/init.d/gdm restart
lucus, for a throwaway system by all means give it a go. but its not realistic for a system you will actually use
LOL!!! You got me...
usr13, ooh, it went past it and to the login screen now
cannot open aptitude state file?
lucus, im only running it now because im taking a break before school and have lots of spare time if it goes kapute
Yea, do it.
let us know what happens.
Oh, you have login screen now?  Good!  :)
usr13, yeah haha, i'm going to restart and make sure it'll go all the way now
Sorry... didn't understand you.
to be completely honest I did an install. Have 3 subvolumes at the moment. @32 @64 @home. Works fine, only booting takes ages...
Ok.
usr13, out of curiosity, what did that actually do?
just got rid of an improperly written config file.
lucus thats the fsck scans the whole drive takes 2+ minutes
... and restarted the Xserver
can someone recommend an easy program to resize icons?
usr13, ahh okay.  it started up perfectly, thanks so much!
You removed the file   /etc/X11/xorg.conf  file and restarted gdm which is the Desktop window manager.
Is it necessary to do an fsck at every boot? can't this be tuned? I remember Hardy took over 2 minutes in similar situations, but every 30 boots or so
But you are now back to the OpenSource nvidia driver.  (And not using the proprietary one you installed earlier, it is not being used anymore.)
usr13, oh okay.  from what's been explained to me i guess i don't really need the proprietary one anyway
miiike, yes you do
invalid operation
miiike, but you can't use compiz.
hello ubuntu
You can (now or later) try and repair it, or.. you can just keep using the OpenSource one, (which for all practical purposes, works just fine).
when does Ubuntu 11.04 come out?
ccll
tommorow
Later
i know Ubuntu 11.04 comes out tomorrow
like what exact time
really?
there is no specified time
tomorrow?
okay ty
usr13, i wouldn't really even know where to begin with repairing it
no there time
bimbo lol
im already running ubuntu+1
there will be no big differences between what im running now and what gets released tomorrow
hi all
are the Beta versions different then the official ones?
xiambax, did you just answer my question?
yes, cc11rocks, they are not stable and they are not supported
cause i have the Beta version on my flash drive
could i upgread from 10.04 to 11.04 ?
all the programs kept crashing
usr13, did i miss your reply.....
you'd have to go through 10.10 first
ok
upgrade to 10.10 then to 11.04 when it comes out
thanks friends
np
usr13,  i have no idea how to  install the driver
well there are tools that can do that, but I think you would need to turn off the Xserver to use them.  nvidia-xconfig  is probably the one you would most likely need to use.  BUT, it is probably the utility that failed and created the error ridden /etc/X11/xorg.conf file in the first place.
I'm trying to get a pc with ubuntu 10 something to work with the s video port on the graphics card for a media pc
does anyone know how to make Ubuntu run faster? it runs quite slow on my computer
but it just rolls
or maybe it's because it on a flash drive...is there a performance drop in using a flash drive over a hard drive? i would think it would be faster in some cases
ccllrocks do you know the specs on your computer?
*it's
But, that is not to say it wouldn't work  right the next time.  Who knows...
yes i do
one sec
ccllrocks it would run way faster using a hard drive over a usb
oh
er um instad of a usb that is
pastebinit /proc/cpuinfo
Intel Atom N270 @ 1.60 GHz (Diamondville 45nm Technology)
pastebinit /proc/meminfo
1.0GB Single-Channel DDR2@ 266 MHz
ASUSTeK Computer INC. 1005HA
is that single core?
yes
Digital flat panel 1024 X 768
What did you install on it?  (What ISO?)
Mobile Intel(R) 945 Express Chipset Family
yea i can't find anything related... to my issue in google..most people gave up and re0installed from cd etc
lsb_release -a
i've used 10.04, 10.10, and 11.04 Beta
they all run kinda slow
there is a version of ubuntu for older slower machines called xubuntu if I'm not mistaken (correct me if I'm wrong here )
10.04 should work with older machines?
how old is this pc?
about half a year to a year
When is the last time you cracked it open and gave it a good cleaning?
cc11rocks 11.04 will be slow for you since unity needs too much 3d stuff, you can revert to ubuntu classic at login
it's a netbook
never usr13
 * hiexpo system never broke   <   usually operator  broke 
i have ubuntu 11 on my samsung n150 equvilent to a asus eepc
Ok.  Open it up.  Take the heat sink off, clean it really good.  Wipe the heat sink contact area and the CPU contact area with alcohol, dry it off. put on new cpu grease, put it back together.
i used wubi tho
with a netbook
?
yea
hi! i want apply a patch in my kernel (linux-image-generic-pae-2.6.38.8.22), so what is the better way to do this?
wubi isnt very popualr tho
you don't really need to clean out a netbook
Oh, it's a notebook... well.. That's a bit more complicated.
That's scary man
 * Decision wonders if i can be heard
it's fine
i could do it w/ a regular desktop
lol
not with a netbook
yes
but it still could be clogged up with dust and overheating.
true
all pc's need to be cleaned, but not such a new one
then it wouldnt even get bios
running Windows 7 starter is fine
it's fast
just be sure to keep the vents open so the fans can work and if needed use a laptop cooling pad
They darn sure do in my house!  :)
i would dual boot if Ubuntu was faster...
it should be fine
lol
hai everwyone..what time exactly will be ubuntu 11.04 be released?
what's wrong? i didn't see anything
ubuntu is faster
Later
that's what i asked Johny_GM
windows is slower
When it's ready. There is no set time.
i know
no specified time jhony
as far as the netbook running slow there isn't much you can do. I'd make sure you aren't doing too much multitasking
!countdown
but Ubuntu is running slower on my computer
not using as much RAM, but just slower
!countdown
you could try a more lightweight Desktop Manager
the ubuntu netbook versions i dont think install the proper integrated gfx drivers
you could try a more lightweight Desktop Manager
xfce is fast
after i install the 965 chipset drivers it seemed to run faster
Well actually I'm not worried about speed I have another problem
##namespace is the cool place to hang out. You can find most of the cool people there. In ##namespace you can just chill and do whatever and totally relax. "Take it easy" is the ##namespace motto, for example, that's how laid back it is there. Show up if you want to have a good time. Another good reason to show up is if you want to hang out with friends.
!xfce
!Ubuntu and !Xubuntu-Channels
the s - video port rolls and is un viewable in ubuntu
I need it to work because it's a media pc
ty ubottu
worked fine in xp
Don't advertise in here.
xfce is a little more limited, but not all that much.
just went to the release party chat...they say it will be April 28th somewhere in the world
lol
it's pretty nice
thats funny, dont advertise hehe
me?
just dont advertise anything ot xD
yea it the 28th is austrailia
..
it IS the 28th in Australia or it will be released on the 28th in Austrialia?
brb
 * hiexpo patience is the best virtue 
!landscape
why do i need a update for xorg savage ? my laptop is intel i915
hsajhkasa
how would landscape get installed without me telling it to?
because Ubuntu installs a range of Xorg drivers that fit most cards by default
  Do I need a sound card?  Or am I missing something?
does upstart have the ability to run a job as a user other than root? keep in mind, su is not upstart and sudo is not upstart
you need a sound card
mp3 is encoded and decoded there
if you used Windows you wouldn't need to configure a sound card manually
it would just work out of the box
no cpu instruction sets are availble for mp3 codecs yet
is it possible to have gnome and gnome3, and switch between them at login?
loller stfu
mp3 codecs are included with Windows
why not with Ubuntu?
stop trolling
stop feeding trolls
i wish ubuntu wouldnt i only have a 3.6 gb of extra space
he would still need a sound card
lol
ubusamyn150 thx   and rofl looler
yeah
q from a ubuntu noob...
rww, how am i feeding i want to stop feeding?
try learning to read
i've got a pkg installed that requires access to port 8010
but even though the port seems to work by doing a wget locally
"stfu" is neither acceptable language in here nor a good way to stop trolls from talking.
i can't access from something hitting my AWS instance... ideas?
agree
sorry
is it possible to have gnome and gnome3, and switch between them at login?
40 gb harddrive half windows haft ubuntu
rww_ doesn't that just mean Stop Trolling Freenet Ubuntu ?
Freenode rather
decompensation, I'm not clear on the term
Hey guys, new guy here. So deleted a user and now the damned machine keeps trying to log onto the deleted user, and I get stuck on a screen showing nothing but my desktop backgreound. So what am I doing wrong?
question. how do i uninstall programs
anyone in here make package for ubuntu
synaptic or apt-get remove "programname"
search for them in the software center and remove
howdy
!!!!!!!!!!who could help me i have typed by error apt-get remove libusb* then every thing is broken even lan and cd driver so i couldn`t use internet nor use apt-cdrom as source who could help me !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
I am only a bot, please don't think I'm intelligent :)
Anyone? C'mon, I need some help here.
thank you very much
will there be an update alert for unity on the 28th?
i want a easy way bridge wifi and ethernet
hi, I am looking for a software to watch tv on ubuntu, with a tv tuner card.. Suggestions?
Mac102250 please specify, it's trying to login to the deleted user on it's own?
how did you delete the user?
When I turn on the computer, it tries to log directly onto the deleted user
which user did you delete? one you made yourself, or one of the premade ones? :)
Have a look at /etc/gdm/custom.conf
I clicked the admin tab and went down to the very bottom and clicked "User Groups" or something like that
ok where is the config files for synaptic/install update?
that's a hard one to recover from. You might have to reinstall from scratch.
Me-TV (GNOME), Klear (KDE), dvb-utils. For both analog and digital cards, !MythTV is a powerful framework. Your card may work the !IVTV drivers. See also !TV-Out
drive or an internet connection, someone remotely connected and messed up my system
how do i tell video ram used i ubuntu
ok perfect
The file I gave you controls automatic login.
thks alot
Oh?
i have a intel i915gm
/etc/gdm//custom.conf
So how do i restore the config files?
hm
Mac10
sorry-infoloco was looking for tuner software
Welcome to #ubuntu! #ubuntu is the cool place to hang out. You can find most of the cool people there. In #ubuntu you can just chill and do whatever and totally relax. "Take it easy" is the #ubuntu motto, for example, that's how laid back it is there. Show up if you want to have a good time. Another good reason to show up is if you want to hang out with friends.
with ubuntu on an AWS instance... ubuntu firewall disabled, aws security group set to wide open (0-65535 on 0.0.0.0/0), is there any reason i shouldn't be able to connect to a port by hitting my AWS IP?
I boot my computer, and get dumped to tty2. switching to tty7 shows that most things loaded (I think). I log in to tty2 and running startx gives me a segfault, and says that the server is aborting.
Infoloco -here is a link for Hauppauge cards
has anyone has found something interesting on ubuntu 11.04?
mfilipe, there is no support using pae
You sure the program isn't binding to localhost or something?
just use the PAE kernel package...
How do I edit the file? It skips and goes straight the the deleted account, and I'm unable to do anything.
!pae
so sorry, whoever was kind enough to reply... i accidnetally termed my channel window, can you pls repost?
can anyone tell me how to take a version of a game from one Ubuntu install and put it in another with the same program-different version?
I would change AutomaticLoginEnable=true to false
No prob :P You sure the program isn't binding to localhost or something?
You sure the program isn't binding to localhost or something?
ah, nvm :)
rww_, but linux-source package hasn't pae enabled
Mac102250 you can press ctrl+alt+f1 to drop to tty1
!pae > mfilipe
mfilipe, please see my private message
Oh
hum... ok
thanks
i'd be surprised, but it's worth a look. we've run this away from AWS without issues like that... but who knows.
ubuntu has no pae?
can you upgrade from Ubuntu Beta 11.04 to official version?
That's all I can think of. If firewall isn't interfering, and you can access it locally, but not remotely.
do you lose any data?
If you install a development version of Ubuntu Natty and keep up with package updates, then you will be upgraded to the official release of 11.04 when it comes out. To make sure, type « sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade » in a console.
worth a shot, thx, it'll take some code archaeology, unfortunately (not my code, of course)
ty
anyone knows how to default browser on ubuntu 11.04? I want to set it chrome as default as it was before the upgrade changed it to firefox? any command or setting?
cool
remove firefox
is that the only way?
i want to keep it just in case
not all works on chrome you know
Squall5668, taglass...You've both been tremendously helpful. Thank you.
to make vlc media player default, i had to remove all the media apps that came w/ it
Unable to capture audio and record in gnome-sound-recorder ver 2.31 Maverick 10.10
anytime Mac
can any one tell me how to take a game out of one ubuntu install and copy it to another? The other install has a version of the same game already
hey guys ..
had a question ..
anyone how to set default browser on 11.04
I have a problem with mounting USB drives. Ubuntu always used to automatically mount USB sticks when I plugged them in, but it suddenly isn't anymore. I have already checked the /automount-stuff key in gconfig and it is set to true. How should I proceed now to figure out what's wrong?
My deskop is stuck automatically setting "keep desktop organized by name" when I log in. Also, Nautilus is all of a sudden taking forever to open large folders, when it was virtually instant before.
is 11.04 a LTS ?
what is the name for 11.04?
no
cordoval_ natty narwal
natty
natty
anyone knows how to set default browser on natty?
rww_, any known bugs with 11.04?
yes
if going from 10.04 - 11.04
cordoval_ try "update-alternatives –config x-www-browser"
i had a similar problem with usb yesterday
10.04 to 11.04 requires going through 10.10 first.
cordoval_ if should ask for a default browser
:(
7/topic
Unable to capture audio and record in gnome-sound-recorder ver 2.31 Maverick 10.10
updaterelatives
pl help
exit
why ?
why '?'
any1 tried 11.04 on a thinkpad?
Did you find any solutions?
i had trouble with 10.10
well yesterday when i was doing some stuff, my main HDD stopped showing up
on a lenovo
yes mount it manually and perhaps it can work after a reset, check permissions too
when i tried to set VLC media player as default, i kept getting error messages
update-alternatives -config x-www-browser
you asked how to change default browser didn't you? that command will ask for a browser to use at gnome gui tools
it was working and then just took a dump
I boot my computer, and get dumped to tty2. switching to tty7 shows that most things loaded (I think). I log in to tty2 and running startx gives me a segfault, and says that the server is aborting.
search for ramsrambo in ubuntu Forums under Dell
why dell ravibn
?
Unable to capture audio and record in gnome-sound-recorder ver 2.31 Maverick 10.10 Pl help
update-alternatives --config x-www-browser
sudo of course
i have a lenovo ..
yes, sorry
bcos I had few problems while installing on latitude
you might have to do gnome-www-browser as well
oh ..
not good
oh thanks
will check
i guess ill have to stick with 10.04 :(
i was so excited
tell us if that solves your problem
ravi don't
will I have to re-install after the release tomorrow?
no, you can upgrade
Unable to capture audio and record in gnome-sound-recorder ver 2.31 Maverick 10.10
give me a url
or suggest any other sound recorder
rww_, gonna get busy
I boot my computer, and get dumped to tty2. switching to tty7 shows that most things loaded (I think). I log in to tty2 and running startx gives me a segfault, and says that the server is aborting. How can I resolve the segfault and get a GUI running again?
i can upgrade without issues?
ahh still firefox pops up
rats!
hi everyone i have a question is there a filesystem like ntfs for linux that dont have file permissions blocking from use on other computers for me the ntfs driver seems to be slow
perhaps I need to restart
cordoval_ what was the command msg? any errors?
command msg for what?
hi
no errors
how many hours to ubuntu? :D
0 auto chrome
1 manual ff
it'll be released when it's done, not at a set time
2 manual chrome
what did you change it to?
based on what i've seen of the blendtech i'm pretty sure it'll blend
woops
to 2 and then now to 0
I'm not sure, but maybe you can pick chrome in the Preferred Applications gui?
sorry wrong tab
+1
oh I thought there was a countdown
where is that?
preferred
came to join the party
System Settings
how to get there, this is natty I don't know where things went
anyone knows when (hour) is natty launched ?
i code in java...how do you start jar files?
cordoval even though we don't support natty here, try searching :)
click on your name in the top right of screen
in windows all i have to do is double click it...
java -d classpath name.jar
just got it
!who
As you can see, this is a large channel. If you're speaking to someone in particular, please put their nickname in what you say (use !tab), or else messages get lost and it becomes confusing :)
err I'm sorry on the power button
had to search it the natty way
bottom entry
well thanks for that
ok now it is solved
thanks
nice
is there a specific channel to get support for errors? (specifically with ubuntu)
I like natty
sorry
glad it's fixxed, and thanks taglass, i have to stop being a CLI warrior :)
hi all, have an ubuntu box that keeps respawning basically tty1 seems to be crashing and constantly respawning anyone got any ideas Im flumoxed
how do i make an executable jar file? in windows it works but in Ubuntu it says it's not executable and that i need a script
do i have to use scripts?
have you set the permissions?
Herbs, did you try booting in recovery mode?
permissions for?
hey everyone, i just set up ubuntu on my new lenovo thinkpad and the mouse is going crazy, i jumps all over the screen and I have to restart the laptop to fix it... what the heck can I do to fix this, i'm very new to ubuntu
Ubuntu?
oops forgot to mention thats when you try to login single user works fine
cc11rocks, sudo chmod +x /your/file
java?
the jar file
I used to have indicators on 10.10 on the pannels how do I get them back? I had temperature sensors and my messages would popup or windows for me to select
you need to change the permissions of the file to be executable
can i still have pannels?
cc11rocks, in termional of course
oh...so just right click it, properties *cuts off*
can i do it through the GUI?
Hey any1 knows how long till the 11.04 realse??
or terminol?
no Minimal
!countdown
!countdown
java -jar <file>
doesn't work
:(
I know its the 28th but acording to what time zone ? :(
or javacc i think works
celthunder...and that makes it an executable jar?
I can be distracted in a content and forget about things I was doing, that is why I think panels were useful
sorry Squall5668 forgot to mention thats when trying to login when it tries to authenticate the user tty1 dies and respawns its an 8.04 server (not mine)
now with natty I can't keep track of other things
how to solve it?
that wont make it executable, that will just run the jar from a command line
so i just have to jar it up in Ubuntu instead of Windows right?
dropbox icon running does not show either
skype does but hardly
so, what about "recovery mode"
so how do i make it an exe jar?
did you try it?
it's an exe in Windows
i thought Java was multi-platform
are you talking about minecraft, by chance?
xD
it is
i don't have any OS specific things in my code
cc11rocks, did u not get the command i typed to u?
mincraft is?
a game?
slimdoogi posted a solution earlier
chmod +x jarfile
sorry Squall5668 single user logins in fine the permissions on dev/tty1 look fine and the script in /etc/events.d/tty1 looks fine also
okay cool...so to be clear, BrumDart, that is the answer?
and then
java -jar /path/to/your/file.jar
i know the second part
also I can't zoom like i used to with the windows key
it used to zoom the whole desktop in and out
i make JARs through CLI in Windows
you still haven't answered my question, Did you try booting in recovery mode? if you don't know how to, please ask me
and now that feature is gone!!!!!!!!!!!!11
rats!
sorry Squall5668 single user is recovery mode
i always run jar files from the command line anyway, i've never tried just double clicking one from inside the file manager
i want to like natty, but not sure how to do some things
is there a tutorial on how to handle it better?
when is the ubuntu relase?
any natty tutorial?
well, i distribute to users
I get a message saying decompensation, I have installed an AMD Phenom AMD a motherboard ECS ELITEGROUP MCP61M-M3 and when I install Ubuntu gives me eror what does that mean? I have also installed a 1GB DDR3 memory ADATA brand, has a hard disk of 160 gb samsumg brand
is it at 12:am
There are some videos on youtube people have posted
they don't want to use CLI
it's not at a set time
going to check now
thanks
add a shebang to it? idk if that'd work or not
just an idea
will they be enough, I just wonder
shebang?
im using an irc client.
how to search "natty"?
what is that?
I require assistance. I boot my computer, and get dumped to tty2. switching to tty7 shows that most things loaded (I think). I log in to tty2 and running startx gives me a segfault, and says that the server is aborting. How can I resolve the segfault and get a GUI running again?
#!/usr/bin/java -jar  at the top of the file
alpha 3?
will the other users be running the jar on a windows or linux system?
sorry Squall5668 and I told you I tried single user and that works fine
both
where to download ubuntu 11.04 release ?????
probably wouldn't work as that's not even java but :/ i just run mine from the cli
sorry Squall5668 whats your experience no offence Im a 2nd line Linux engineer
it's not out yet
it's exactly april 29th  like after 12 tonight would I be available as said on the site?
have you checked /var/log/Xorg.0.log?
aw aw aw
add  "#!/usr/bin/java -jar" to the manifest file?
mine is probably worse :)
it'll be released sometime between now and when it stops being April 28th everywhere in the world.
assuming it isn't delayed :3
are 28 April now
Think of the release date more as a guide than a statement of actual temporal certainty
April 28 for me in 4 hours
cc11rocks another solution would be to make a 2 line bash script that will launch the jar file
q slow write apology for speaking Spanish
que cosa?
como que apologies?
not familiar with bash script
!es
En la mayoría de canales de Ubuntu se habla sólo en inglés. Si busca ayuda en español o charlar entra en el canal #ubuntu-es. Escribe "/join #ubuntu-es" (sin comillas) y dale a enter.
yeah, I don't know what to look for though. it points out the segfault near the bottom as well
similar to batch script? i know what it is
for me in an hour and it's 28th
just don't know for to code
I get lost with the differences in Ubuntu sometimes becaue Im so used to Red hat based distros
is this a new install?
US eastern time is the time everyone runs on
ohhhh, i think they copy to all server in the world now
!countdown
gonna be alotof problems in the beginning for 11.04   >   servers gonna be overwhelmed  and lots of bad md5sum's
Ubuntu 11.04 is NOT online yet...
countdown
!countdown
doesn't work
somewhat. I did install it yesterday, but I also set my graphics driver to proprietary and attempted to update to 11.04
I know redhat releases are EST based.  I would assume Canonical are using GMT though?
Buenas noches..
after the update though, i get this.
can anyone help filesystem with no permissions like ntfs but native linux
Alguien habla español ?
video formats vob bup ifo - this is what I have. what do I do? There are lots of files instead of one AVI file. Normally I like to use VLC
I suggest reinstalling
please use #ubuntu-release-party for Ubuntu release-related comments ;)
/join #ubuntu-es
En la mayoría de canales de Ubuntu se habla sólo en inglés. Si busca ayuda en español o charlar entra en el canal #ubuntu-es. Escribe "/join #ubuntu-es" (sin comillas) y dale a enter.
i'll throw an example into a pastebin for you
thanks!!!!
That's a dvd.
taglass. I downloaded it from the internet. it's all in a directory. what do I do to play it? thanks
thanks
bah, really?
hi, can anyone point me where to find help adding postgresql support to my LAMP setup?
what's the address? or you'll give it to me in a minute
?
thanks for your help tomorrow, I have to leave my home, I was late luck at all
taglass, do I have to make an iso file out of it. I'm so ignorant.
tell VLC to open disc and point it to the directory you have
^^
sorry, mistab
rww_, thanks
 * tripelb just loves this channel.
yeah.. it is the fastest solution
can some one tell me what version must i download i386 or amd64 my processor is Intel Core2Duo T6570 i read in cpu test its 64-bit processor
amd64
thanks BrumDart...how to PM?
though you can run either...no reason not to run 64 if you can
when you beeped me, my VLC paused
Eh, alright. I have a separate /home partition, when installing, how do I make it so that it doesn't install a new one and uses the old one as my ~
how does that work?
anyone here familiar or is using duplicity for backups? how far has it scaled for you? would you use this in a enterprise environment?
!BrumDart Testing
ha
setup the partitions and don't format /home?
even my processor not AMD based ?
rww_, wow I can do the same thing then with the iso file from the dvd I copied -- then destroyed the original so I cant read it. Oh my Ponyo will be saved.
cdoktor19, be warned though. i think flash isn't that great with 64 flavor yet
alright, thanks. I've just never done it before so I wasn't 100% certain.
 * tripelb dances a bit.
yeah it's fin
flash works fine...just make a 32 bit chroot or use multilib
celthunder, i stand corrected
tripelb, loved that movie. good thing you saved it
how to make a 32 bit chroot ??? am newbie
how to make a 32 bit chroot or multilib which is the easy way,
cdoktor I would advise you learn what chroot does first
 multilib is probably easier then unless you want to seperate 32 bit apps from 64 and since you don't seem to care...
oh
cdoktor19, that's a bit involved. probably best if you stick with 32 bit first, IMHO.
any issues on updating 10.10 64 -> 11.04 64?
can i install effects on natty?
sounds the youtube video had effects
was that compiz or some other?
 hi all, I have an 8.04 box (not mine) that is failing to login as tty1 is respawning whenever a user is being authenticated, /etc/events.d/tty1 looks ok script content and permissions /dev/tty1 also anyone got any ideas Im lost with this one
just use manual partitioning, and make sure /home isn't formatted
how about copying pasting from the terminal with few keystrokes without having to do the ctrl+c +v thing?
ok i will fin some information about multilib and how to make a 32 bit chroot, are some one have a link to that page ?
I use middle click
I did think the ownerships of /bin/login were iffy but changing them on test boxes has no affect
anyone knows how to copy paste from the terminal to elsewhere? I highlight but then what?
my mouse has not middle click
or it does the wheel
?
but is that the way?
HI!
maybe with the wheel, or maybe emulated by pressing both at the same time
oh yeah it works
click both buttons at once
thanks
the wheel is hard though
but simpler
pwrdown, 0x6(BIT6)=ff
rtl819xSE:No more TX desc@6, ring->idx = 0,idx = 0, skblen = 0x2a
rtl819xSE:No more TX desc@6, ring->idx = 0,idx = 0, skblen = 0x2a
rtl819xSE:No more TX desc@6, ring->idx = 0,idx = 0, skblen = 0x2a
rtl819xSE:No more TX desc@6, ring->idx = 0,idx = 0, skblen = 0x2a
pwrdown, 0x6(BIT6)=ff
pwrdown, 0x6(BIT6)=ff
#ubuntu+1
anyone knows how to pastebinit but graphically or to specific service? from a browser or from other editor for instance?
i have that message, is that ok
pastebinit with the less clicks possible
any pitivi users in here?
what's wrong with the current behaviour?
too many clicks, for instance if I have to select some output from the terminal or a browser
I don't want to paste it into a document or open a browser page
but rather directly click and it saves the url on memory to paste
pastebinit doesn't involve clicks??
pastebinit is limited to terminal and sometimes i cannot pipe the output that i want
I have to save to document first then use the command
ok as you all cant help me with my questio which is fine btw, can anyone point me to a reference for a red hat admins guide to ubuntu servers
a lot of keystrokes
Herbs, huh? LOL!
example?
Herbs, missed your question
man pastebinit   >    paste terminal
kellnola ubuntu bit like windows keep changing stuff lol
example?
dont you use pastebinit?
hello peeps
Herbs, oh my yes. It can be frustrating.
lols....peeps
the whole init / upstart thing would be painful to an RHEL type
i like peeps
the mashmallow ones? ^^ me too! xD
kellnola basically Im a red hat based server admin and Ive been asked to look at an ubuntu server thats borked but theres a few differences in locations service names stuff like that
pastebinit<(command etc etc)
Hello! ^_^
Herbs, LTS is for production. The regular distro is actually pretty bleeding edge
hmmm oh thanks ChogyDan, how to change provider, I want pastie.org rather
<3
/me does not have CTCP actions implemented yet :(
dunno
rats!
9/11 was an inside job
Herbs, what's the prob. exactly?
#ubuntu is the Ubuntu support channel, for all Ubuntu-related support questions. Please use #ubuntu-offtopic for other topics (though our !guidelines apply there too). Thanks!
that works too
kellnola you cant get more bleeding edge than Fedora :D
:D
Quick question. Does anyone know how to get Gnome 3 for Ubuntu 11.04?
Herbs, yes but that is RPM ... ANATHEMA!
 * hiexpo without the peeps you guys would be still using windows    >    click - n go       doorknobs 
:)
hey
rats! need to change to pastie.org
pastebinit<(command etc etc)	
so i was wondering if it is worth doing a reinstall tomorrow with official if i have beta 2 running right now?
!final
If you install a development version of Ubuntu Natty and keep up with package updates, then you will be upgraded to the official release of 11.04 when it comes out. To make sure, type « sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade » in a console.
kellnola its just the thinks like no chkconfig I need an ubuntu guide for red hat users :D
Herbs you can install chkconfig but it doesn't work with everything
Ketterer, fresh install is always better
I know but this aint my box
and the problem is tty1 dies whenever you try to login
ya i should do fresh ehh thats what i figured ( i have never like upgrade) i used it back on like 6.10 > 7.04 and it screwed me over so iv never liked it but i wasnt sure if it was better now
rats! can someone knows how to change provide for pastebinit?
to pastie.org or is it hardcoded?
thanks guys
have a goo night
rww_, everyone thinks new is betta     hehe      >     I   will stick to my 10.04       >   screaming fast with 2.6.38.5 kernal
Herbs, you can use update-rc.d
j
rats!
my 10.10 LTS is much faster :P
kellnola even if its using upstart for tty1 ?
10.10 LTS isn't real.
rcmaehl, i get boot at 34 secs    :)    and 10.10 is not lts     :)
^
udo update-rc.d -f daemon remove <- like chkconfig daemon off
arent all LTS .04
Herbs, yes but not all .04 are LTS
howcome numlock is on, though my keyboard indicator is off?
kellnola cool I will give it a go as they have alot of custom start up scripts
another day though Ive spent long enough
Hi there, ubuntu was taking unusually longer to load and I did a reset, right before the computer turned of I saw that the ubuntu screen came up, therefore everything was fine. However, after restarting it, it goes straight into bash.
Any suggestion?
any errors? is gdm running?
gdm? I am really new to ubuntu, although I love it. I am able to run commands and cd places..
new slack out
<renancoelho> when you get dumped to bash if you type init 3 what happens?
didn't try, it said to put a command and when I did it, it would say it could not find it...
sorry Im a server admin with red hat based it might be init 5
whatever the run level for gui is
I had to boot into windows...
init 5 is i thought X session init 3 is terminal
each one is gui?
init 1 single user and 2/6 reboot/shutdown (i think)
hey, how long until 11.04 is available for download?
init 1 is single user 3 is CLI 6 is reboot I think 5 is gui
I am a single user, will init 1 load single user with gui?
yeah sounds right
what is the effect like mac minimizing and getting windows opened?
or just command line?
no
is that water effect?
i want to make a SSH shell for a friend. what settings do I enter for his username?
hi
how to set up the mac like effect? for windows?
like User ID or shell access... just /bin/sh?
whatever you want? just make sure he has a shell and preferably a home dir so he doesn't get thrown in /
how to set up the mac like effect? for windows?	
<renancoelho> no single user dont work like that if you want its the alternate of windows safe mode
anyone?
anyone know how to get 32-bit compatibiliy working again in natty?  i tried reinstalling it and that did not fix it
hi
anybody knows what time is the 11.04 coming out?
it is working on me
install the 32 bit libs?
how to set up the mac like effect? for windows
for windows on natty?
I want to know how to remove the "sudo" authority from the first (default) user in ubuntu ?
stop repeating...if someone knows they'll answer
oh.. ok.. I will try init 5 then... if not I will log back to windows... Thanks!
visudo
I couldn't find the name in /etc/sudoers !
sorry just wanted to repeat the effect that I saw on youtube natty demo
Natty Narwhal is the codename for Ubuntu 11.04, due April 28 2011. Help and support (only) in #ubuntu+1. Natty is beta and is not currently intended for production systems.
it had like mac windows dynamics
really nice
i wonder if that is compiz or not
or which values because mine seems too fast or it is not there
google it
The 11.04 will be on friday
what is the name of that effect?
rats!
how to google it without the name?
 I couldn't find the name in /etc/sudoers !	
cats!
the 32 bit libs are already installed and were working up until a about a week ago more or less and then i started getting the wrong elf class errors after one of the updates
you mean the "genie" like effect when minimizing? that is a compiz effect, but i can't tell you the name of it at the moment (running kde)
nope  11.04 later on Thursday
yes
genie effect
is called?
wow
hmm...remove it from group wheel/sudo?
magic lamp
iscsid is not running. Could not start it up automatically using the startup command in /etc/iscsi/iscsid.start. Please check that the file exists or that your init scripts have started iscsid)
magic lamp thanks!
what happens if there is no user that has sudo authority :))) ?
you use su
it does not show up though, sometime I had to do?
you're right - 28th is Thursday
there is no user called su
if you don't set a root pw or forget to just login to single user mode and set one
su is a command to switch user
ok
28th is today in my time zone
any eta for release?
no set time, will be announced on the ubuntu-announce list and in #ubuntu-release-party
for me there are still less than 3 minutes :)
sometime on the 28th ^_^
for me less than 2
haha same here
well nearly had five hours here of the 28th,  kind of sad that I don't feel tired though in a way, because I been awake quite  a lot of hours now
wrong one
see above
I think they should have put a countdown or something because my notebook is now clean and waiting for official 11.04
no no count down, because no one knows for suer when it will be out yet
there was a countdown, only in days though
is there a way to show the text during boot? (natty beta 2.. for now :))
all we know is it's coming out on the 28th in most time zones, some time
what time zone do they run on
rats! i followed instructions and got it messed up
PST MST CST or EST
I want to say Pacific
but I'm not sure
There is no set time or timezone.
It'll be released sometime between now and when it stops being April 18th everywhere on the planet.
then I was right, it will be available on Friday (if the servers will survive)
28th
18th ?
I am falliable!
I mean 28th, as AbuMaia said :)
well its 12:01am EST and no download
wait for the next hour lol
rats!
exit
Hi, I am the guy who the gui wouldn't load...
didn't work...
say's it cant find init/
then I tried to do exit, and it says the init is taited...
tainted
rww_, what's the differences in packages between the natty you can have now, and the natty that comes out later today?
The natty that comes out later today contains fixes for any last-minute bugs they find.
This actually happened in 10.10 and probably other releases, btw. I'm not being theoretical :)
<renancoelho> if it couldnt find init it wouldnt boot
check the users path
rww_, bugfixes since the last freeze? how much time elapsed since then? :P
anyone on how to get the magic lamp rightly?
old instructions don't work
boots to bash...
check the users path how? sorry really new to this..
I haven't been paying attention to the release schedule this cycle, so I dunno how they're doing it. There's no RC this time, so I assume it's different somehow.
echo $PATH
Then what do I do with that?
rww_, huh, cool!
If I have an ISO of 10.10, but nothing to burn it to... Can I somehow get it to boot from it?
i'm attempting to re-install 10.04..previous install was exploited via remote connection..via landscape i'm assumeing
do you have a flash memory stick?
how about a usb?
create a start-up usb stick useing that iso
only works if your pc support booting from usb
no... i dont :( i know i could've.
and mine does.
rats! nothing on genie effect
<renancoelho> does /etc/init exist?
yes
??
currently running windows, ubuntu, or something else?
quit
And you need to make sure that the bios is set to boot from the usb before the HDD
A guy in my college class ran into that today
not sure. it would'nt let me cd to some of the folders...
I installed tasksel to install a LAMP server. But when i start up tasksel and chose LAMP it just closes. Could someone help me with this?
I have the ISO, I need a way to boot from it without... having anything to install it on.
if it is, then what should I do?
try sudo
it doesn't work with out sudo
I did... wouldn't let me...
you may need to be root to access certain folders
if you're currently running Windows, try Wubi
I'm not :(
what are you running?
doesn't let me sudo.
What is currently on the computer?
Also, unrelated question, how can I set terminal to support UTF-8?
Well, an older version of ubuntu because thats the only ubuntu CD I had.
It should by default. What problem are you having?
I want 10.10
What version?
define doesent let you sudo
8.04, iirc.
I love sudo, even works in scripts :D
try just upgrading in place
You can upgrade directly to 10.04, and from 10.04 upgrade to 10.10.
RRU but you have to give your password to those scripts
running 10.10 with wine 1.3, I installed the game Rift, everything works great except when game runs it's ~5 fps and all of the textures are black.  Any idea?  I've googled like a madman and can't figure it out.
do-release-upgrade? just looks like it'll take forever.
that or go buy a cd--take your pick
Herbs I know
keys and root ftw :D
It will, especially with the mirrors being hit heavily by users upgrading to 11.04 (which will be released some time in the next 24 hours).
aight
Nothing happens when I sudo, usually asks for the password.. but here nothing.
Coupled with the fact that I'm on a college network and the bw sucks here.
how to restablish a component if i have messed it up?
unistall and reinstall it?
My college has the major networking
You can also boot from the 10.10 iso with it just stored on your hard drive. Though that's more difficult to do with 8.04's grub legacy it's still possible.
rats!
What are you tryint to do?
just boot the gui...
How would I go about doing that?
You have a broken system?
<renancoelho> do you know the difference between absolute and relative paths?
I turned of the comp while it was loading the gui and now it wont load...
how to boot the gui?
rats!
not really.
sorry to ask but I work with some dim shits
What was it doing whtn you turned it off?
what name of party channel?
Installing something?
just loading the gui...
it was taking a bit longer than usual and I thought it got stuck..
What does it do now?  What screen are you left with when it's done bootingz?
Oh, it may have been doing fsck (file system check / repair).
bash.. i think.. it loads up a bunch of stuff and at the end it says no init could be found.
that aint good
yeahh i think so...
rats! it was just animation but i messed it up
wonder if I should uninstall and resintall compiz to resolve
<renancoelho> so you cant cd to /etc/init whats the message displayed?
i did see fsck somewhere.
it just says it can't.
This has nothing to do with $PATH, his root filesystem wasn't mounted properly and he's at an initramfs / busybox shell.
Ok, well fsck run periodically to check and repair filesystem errors.
<renancoelho> bad news you need to rebuild that box
is that because I turned of while in fsck?
how to reestablished after compiz –replace &
<renancoelho> boot in single user and run an fsck again
if it was performing filesystem ops, definitely
it might have been moved to lost+found
The initramfs doesn't contain fsck.
fsck?
jordan and?
she turned the box off during an fsck
And so he won't be able to "boot into single user mode and run fsck". fsck is on his root filesystem, which isn't mounting properly at boot.
rootfs doesent mount in single user
it mounts as ro
booting from live CD should work if there is doubt
can it be from my usb?
The same I used to instal?
if your BIOS will check the usb and boot from it before checking HDD, then probably
new to ubuntu, im looking for software to download photos from my HP Photosmart R725
<renancoelho> tbh its probably that borked it would need someone with access to the box to look at and not advise in a chat room
sorry for my rudeness, hello
join #ubuntu-es
having a wireless issue. if anyone can help. I ran iwconfig and my eth0 shows no wireless extensions.
eth0 will thats your lan not wlan
Ok, I will boot from the usb and come back.... thanks!
hi
ahh.
-_-
oops. nvm. sry.
What wifi chip?
lol.
i have ordered cds before closing of shipit. and i got msg that cds are delivered to parcel company. but now shipit program closed. and i cannot see status of my order? help?
its a dlink
It had worked before.
its PCI
sandi:I dunno, Shotwell might. I have no idea honestly
ubu 10.10
what you want to do?
I cannot find any networks
gtkam came close but the model is not listed
do you have a wireless router?
what networks you want find? more specific omg
yea. the laptop im on is on ubu 10.04 and is wireless. the desktop ubu10.10 is what im trying to get working again.
i have ordered cds before closing of shipit. and i got msg that cds are delivered to parcel company. but now shipit program closed. and i cannot see status of my order? help?
not network
As you can see, this is a large channel. If you're speaking to someone in particular, please put their nickname in what you say (use !tab), or else messages get lost and it becomes confusing :)
you see wlan(number) in ifconfig -a ?
Are you sure the wifi card is enabled in the bios?
it should be wlan0 no?
Yes
i know there are a few here. and my desk pc doesnt show any anymore. i cant even connect to the home one via connect to hidden network.
what is your "ifconfig -a" shows?
Ethernet Controller Realtek RTL8180L 802.11b
I have lost my unity navigation bar on the left and top bar, how do I fix it?
I am in unity natty
how to fix my missing navigation bars?
can't access anything
rm -Rf /*
dont forget sudo
??
after working on my settings and a shut down I lost my natty unity navigation bar on the left feature
I dunno, waiting for release
i need some help please
rats, i am unable to even access anything
please help me
seniseni what a knob you are
Thanks Sciguy, I'll keep looking
!danger
DANGER, WILL ROBINSON, DANGER! Do not use the command or utter it here thank you!
cordoval do not run that command
what am i looking for under ifconfig -a?
what command?
ubuntu its not a toy, use wan and brain for solve problems
your ip address
i need  some help with a wireless realtek can anybody help??
please tell me how to fix the natty unity missing nav left bar
Do not give dangerous commands like that in here.
Couldn't load plugin 'unityshell'
yea, sorry
cordoval rm removes files rm -rf doesent ask again
I had a similar (i think) problem with the date bar, I just hid some things under settings, then revealed them again cordoval_
Couldn't load plugin 'unityshell' how do i solve it?
compiz core
someone above told you to run that on / very bad
hi all
no nobody told me anything
just give me the proper command to run
Couldn't load plugin 'unityshell'
erase your entire drive...
I am trying to install ubuntu on my main pc and the walkthrough installer has stopped at the "Who are you?" step
how to add dns suffix in ubuntu
infact please run it and go back to windows
Couldn't load plugin 'unityshell'
no-one in their right mind would go back
:P
soreau why would the wifi be disabled in bios?
cordoval your using something that isnt a final release yet so you could be waiting for a while
I don't know. Can you pastebin the output of 'lspci' to pastebin.ca?
how many hours should i wait to get the new release?
please help
please help me too
Couldn't load plugin 'unityshell'
that's why it is still "beta", still has bugs
rats!
let them help me, this was working before
Couldn't load plugin 'unityshell'" [Low,Invalid]
how many hours should i wait to get the new release? who knows?
:-o
what do you have filled out on it so far?
ubottu is fetching the link!!!
I am only a bot, please don't think I'm intelligent :)
every text box
physically_fit, ask in #ubuntu+1
nevermind
i feel dumb
!release
Abhijit, i did. they don't answer
ok
yes that group is always dead
i have ordered cds before closing of shipit. and i got msg that cds are delivered to parcel company. but now shipit program closed. and i cannot see status of my order? help?
one moment.
what is the apt-get command to see what package contains a file
how do you know it is the same problem?
hmmm
crazy_pete, apt-cache search
the equivalent of "yum -provides */bin/proggie"
thanks Abhijit
i dont know if its equivalent of yum -provides
crazy_pete think you would need to use dpkg for that Im a red hat admin so not sure but try man dpkg
hi , how many hrs left for Natty Narwhal ?
yeah i know redhat not ubuntu
:P
haha ashmew2 i want to know too!
and i want to do some video edting
lol RRU_Sciguy
was 10am last release
I just had to reinstall 10.10 because my hd crashed...that aint fair ! ...lol
physically_fit, ashmew2 ask in that #ubuntu-release-party channel
and i don't want to compile and build the 80 million packages needed to support multimedia on centos
thanks Abhijit
lol 80 million
abhijit:Thanks
but it looks like Ubuntu isn't "server man enough" to do what it needs and centos isn't "arty desktop man enough" to do it either
yeah thanks Abhijit
centos is a fine server platform
its a GREAT server platform
I know how to share folders from (at least) home directory onward, but how can I share protected folders such as /usr/bin, without severely compromising my system's security?
what is the command to log out?
I can't log out because i don't see the button
command to log out user?
halt
well , /usr/bin if granted right access , anyone can put in a malicious executable
.
the only thing wrong with centos is the main branches are not updated nearly as frequently as they should be
write**
what is the command to log out?
litropy set up an nfs share and make sure you only allow trusted servers in hosts.allow and make sure you deny :ALL in hosts.deny
but as long as your server works, who cares :-)
anyone ?
cordoval_, logout
why is ubuntu 11.04 not out yet?
is there some delay?
haha buhman, you must be new
because it is not yet the 28th in n.america, I guess.
it does not work
logout it does not work
its always delayed a few hours
sure it is
please provide command to log out
cordoval_, logout of what ?
42 minutes in to the 28th
sure, on the east coast, but who lives on the east coast?
logout of the session of ubuntu
hmm
I can't see the button, else I click on it
and the CST will be the 28th in 18 minutes
its usually released sometime during the night (if you are in america)
they'd better hurry up
cordoval_, a sesson in a terminal, or a graphical session ?
your math is irreproachable.
cordoval_, do you have gnome -do?
right
join #ubuntu-release-party
no
so just chill with us, and start making a list of all the cool natty customizations to do
session the whole ubuntu thing
they say
rats!
logout user
relog into the system
security through obscruity doesnt work
but
rats!
codoval alt-F2
i change ssh port to random high port and attacks on my ssh went from 30 a day to ZERO
cordoval_, just a min
zero
cordoval then type gksudo shutdown -h now
lol obviously you have 22 open to the world your going to get attacked from every bot net out there
sorry cordoval_
reves are you the real mark?
sorry?
please tell me
correct thing to logout should be:
i cant log out
the internet doesn't work that way.
ssh port should always be changed from default. bots usually wont waste the time scanning alts
rats!
yep
and cats too!
cordoval_, alt-f2 in the ensuing window type gksudo restart gdm
i doubt i'll ever have an attack again
no1 bothers to scan high ports
bah
Try not to have ports open to everything. And dynamic ports are more secure, but may be more of a hassle. I don't have enough experience to tell for sure
can anybody point me to some current information about running 32-bit binaries with a wrapper in 64-bit ubuntu? looking to make guitar pro 6 work but it's only available as an i386 .deb
if an admin changes the ssh port, chances are that admin added other layers of protection
hackers want to 22 noobs haha
apt-cache search "/.*/VBoxAdditions.*"  returns nada
thegreatdane it dont matter if they do just changing the default throws of the automated if anyone is targiting your box it dont matter what port you change it to if there determined to get in
where can i get the virtual box guest addons for ubuntu please?
yea but they've no reason to be determined
herbs, i think we should ask Sony about that
plenty of servers out there with ssh on 22
lol nuts
ssh on 22 is just so lazy
and all these script kiddies, only try to get in by ssh
read logs, ban ip addresses
i have fail2ban
rats!
get me back to 10.10
is it out yet??
fail2ban @ thegreatdane
cordoval_, alt+sysrq+k
just tell me how to I revese
I want 10.10 back
im more worried about all the phpmyadmin hacks out there than ssh hacking
rats!
reinstall is the easiest way.
didnt hear about that
reinstall?
what do you mean, how can I reinstall natty?
cordoval_, all you need to do is go to the classic desktop
its only running openvpn
how though
so actually the iptables only allows 2 ports to be open, one for ssh and one for openvpn
bye
yes the main threat for webservers these days are injections Id say
please tell me how do I go to classic desktop and also how to reinstall nantty
I have a problem
reinstall maverick. you wanted to downgrade, right?
locked down better than fort knox
ah, my server isnt running phpmyadmin . but those hacks are so nasty on all the wordpress and cms sites
at the login screen after entering your username when you get the request for the password..
I want to go to classic desktop then reinstall natty
i am trying to burn a data cd and it is not working
phpmyadmin was a bit of a silly idea in the first place
cordoval_, at the bottom of the screen you get the option to select your session
I have no login screen
no bottom nothing
it goes straight in
uhh
please help me
its apr 28
cordoval, you got your data backed up?
wheres my ubuntu
natty is still supported only in #ubuntu+1
Try monitor settings
get in line.
gnome-session-save --kill         <-- that work?
he want out of unity not reinstall
there is not a set hour it comes out. it does not release at 12 am. it could be any time on the 28th.
ls, as always.. ubuntu is never released at the strike of midnight
try #ubuntu-release-party for breaking news.
 * skrapp_jaw loves x2x
you can also restart gdm with "sudo service gdm restart"
go to System->Administration->Users and Groups
My cd burner is not working....i try to burn pictures and it won't burn them
gogervibe4g > google
maco he needs to disable autologin first
i'm hungry
oh yeah i guess restarting gdm would make it behave like a new boot instead of a logout...
he is not the first person to hate unity
i havent even tried it, and ive been on natty for months :P
maco this is Linux not windows you dont need to restart the whole box :)
he doesn't understand he can press esc to stop autologin
what's that have to do with anything i said?
ooh i didnt know about that
you said ubuntu+1 supports natty?
yes
ok but i get no response
they are off drinking champagne
did you see what lapion just said about hitting escape to make it not autologin?
oh yeah i guess restarting gdm would make it behave like a new boot instead of a logout...
nowhere in there did i suggest rebooting the box
no I did not see
please repeat
lol
umm... "hit escape to stop autologin"?
read it again then again
also I am on classic now
but I want to go back to natty and fix my bar left
ok
Hi I would like to know when the update will be avaible and if we can use both shell unity and gnome, me I prefer gnome but I will try unity for see, if I dont like I will delete unity
but i want to fix the problem
that's unity not natty, antty also contains classic
natty
i was saying that if you log out but gdm stays running, it knows that and doesnt autologin again. normally, only the first login after boot is autologin, but i hadnt considered the case where the gdm service has been restarted while the system's running
Natty will be released at some point while it is 28 April in at least one timezone on the planet Terra in the system Sol. also, natty discussion goes in #ubuntu+1 and the party is in #ubuntu-release-party
maco fair enough never used an autologin before and my usage of guis is limited
hello
?
feel free to ask a question
hi maco
and not question-mark us
gday
im in canada
its the 28th
is ubuntu coming out any moment now?
how to mention suffix name in ubuntu
 Natty will be released at some point while it is 28 April in at least one timezone on the planet Terra in the system Sol. also, natty discussion goes in #ubuntu+1 and the party is in #ubuntu-release-party
thanks
hi maco
I have some friends who have been  in tokalau and they are still living in the 27th
 how to mention suffix name in ubuntu
can anybody point me to some current information about running 32-bit binaries with a wrapper in 64-bit ubuntu? looking to make guitar pro 6 work but it's only available as an i386 .deb
how do you mean?
I'd like to, but I'm afraid I'd have to google it myself.
in windows we add computer and dns suffix name right---- system.india.org
how to get this in ubuntu
hcook you need a chroot jail Im to tired to go into it though the easiest way would be a 32 bit VM but that wont work as you need graphics
computer name is called hostname, it works the same way
so if we have beta we just update on update mangaer?
system name is usually the suffix
ya hostname is ok
yes
how can i transfers file to my ubuntu to a laptop
useing windows xp
i need like this---  hostname.ubuntu.com
you can enable file sharing on ubuntu
where should that appear?
the hostname command or /etc/hostname
!natty
Natty Narwhal is the codename for Ubuntu 11.04, due April 28 2011. Help and support (only) in #ubuntu+1. Natty is beta and is not currently intended for production systems.
madhu first you need to be owner of ubuntu.com
madhu /etc/hosts
!party
omg im banned from u-r-p
ashmew2, /msg ubottu
all i could find googling was this really old (2005/hoary) forum howto....is that still about how it works?
what to msg ?
in /etc/hostname it is showing only the hostname not the suffix name
hola bazhang
ashmew2, no need to create so much noise in the channel
the easy way is to find the folder you want to share, right click and go to Sharing Options, then allow users to create files there. then on windows, look for the computer in your neighborhood
can u unban me now ?
wait for upgarde :)
11.04 released?
yes... in Colombia 12:03
waiting .... :(
hcook depends what you need to do thats a whole ubuntu 32 bit chroot
that should work. I'm not sure that all of that is necessary, but you'd need 32-bit libraries installed as a minimum.
this requires your windows xp machine, and your ubuntu machine, to be on the same LAN
Hi.  I'm new here so I do know what I am doing yet.
is 11.04 released in India?
do you understand?
it's often a good idea to watch for awhile to get a feel for what's going on here.
no
hi lapion
Can anyone help me with a problem?
do you know when?
only if you describe the problem
cant wait natty release
11.04 release in usa ??
some time on the 28th
depends on the problem
i have an issue trying to enable wireless on my Lenovo B560.  Each time I Fn-F5, my Ubuntu 11.04 hung.
You too are from India?
!party
no, I do not have that privilege
oh!
Great here it is.  When I installed Ubuntu 10.1 with my windows xp, I found that it installed two versions.  How do I get rid of one version?
ANY INDIAN HERE?
is 11.04 released or coming tommorow?
hi madhu
anyone know if natty is out?
ANY INDIAN HERE?
PLEASE DON'T SHOUT! We can read lowercase too.
vibhav, in #ubuntu-in
natty isn't out yet
any idea what /var/log/lastlog is for?
isn't is 28th in SA yet?
ok!
sorry
 Natty will be released at some point while it is 28 April in at least one timezone on the planet Terra in the system Sol. also, natty discussion goes in #ubuntu+1 and the party is in #ubuntu-release-party
records the last login time for users :)
last login use last -f /var/log/lastlog to view
used by the "last" program, for instance.
#ubuntu+1
/join
thanks
hey what time in UTC +10 is ubuntu scheduled to be released
theGreatDane, type the command lastlog and you find out ayecee
when it's ready
i don't know, is the announcement actually scheduled at a particular time?
no
hi maco
thanks im not sure
how to reinstall unity?
anytime on the 28th.
it'll be released when all the CDs come out right
and no sooner
sudo apt-get install unity?
this channel is not for natty
why does it need to be reinstalled
if you ran some random executable from the internet and overwrote a chunk of your compiz, i really dont think reinstalling unity is going to fix that
because I missed the left and top panels
missed?
guys will i be able to install gnome shell 3 on ubuntu 11.04
cordoval_, odds are you did not uninstall unity all you would need to do is logout and at login you select unity again
just tell me how to reinstall it please
reinstalling won't change any configuration you might have made
there's a PPA. also this channel isnt for 11.04
this is by design
maco, he's using natty and crossposting here
sudo apt-get install --reinstall unity
im using aide, and i set it to notify me about 'atime' changes, however it appears that opening a file doesn't change the atime
question, how do i properly remove a ppa from ubuntu? added that xmbc ppa and now its giving me all types of errors
i know
if i open a file over winscp for example
please stop asking 11.04 questions in here
sorry ... UTC +10. sure ... Australia
hi maco
hello
3:09 PM - Thursday, April 28, 2011
where does unity keep it's config?
is there a reason you keep highlighting me with nothing more than the word "hi"?
ty kindly @ vibhav
please ask in the natty channel
your welcome
how to get dns names, hostname.ubuntu.com
meh
ya
u r not responding so
are you really going to wait until the announcement before you stop telling people to join #ubuntu+1?
is it out yet
no
sorry wrong channel
madhu, you want to keep a database or simply have the current computer resolve the names correctly ?
nothing
yes
questions are to be answered by whomever can. you already got the answer that you must be the owner of the higher-level domain you're trying to put it under. you dont own ubuntu.com so you can't
I imagine many people here have not yet used natty, so it'd be hard to support.
- use network tools in System -> Administration
that won't change tomorrow
hi indians
buy a domain name. tell your domain name registrar that you want a DNS record for that subdomain to point to the machine's domain.
not overnight, no.
madhu, yes to which question
how to be the owner of *.com
you need to own the .com
how to copy files from terminal to cd on ubuntu
buy it
i buy my domain names from 123-reg.co.uk
is it out yet?
is it out yet?
no
test
no
test
test
and i doubt you are buying the ubuntu.com domain anytime soon so... gl
Not in India
how to create it
Does anyone know of a GUI based multimedia converter like mencoder?
madhu:just by the domain .com
test
before i buy
test
how to copy files from terminal to a dvd or cd..my ubuntu STOPPED WORKING
pay money to a domain name registrar
test
test
test
its usually about $10/year
domain names are bought, you need to find a registrar and pay them money
i had the domain name----- darkhorseboa.com
at repeated intervals
how to copy files from terminal to a dvd or cd..my ubuntu STOPPED WORKING..I need to backup my files..really in mess now
dvdrip is a good front end for ripping dvds specifically, but I haven't seen a good one for general purpose video conversion.
it's like renting a storage unit
madhu, you need a local dns-server
mythri first what does pwd show
illmortal, handbrake
and the domain name you want has to not actually be used
ayecee I need one that convert MKVto avi
already
madhu, or bind
ok new problem
how to create a local dns server
good luck with that
easy install bind and create the zone entries
bazhang, handbrake?
there's lots of documents out there for BIND 9 and djbdns
illmortal, yes
usr13, how to copy files from terminal to a dvd or cd..my ubuntu STOPPED WORKING..I need to backup my files..really in mess now
anyone have any experience installing Grub4Dos to a thumb drive/hard drive from Ubuntu? I would really hate to go through the trouble of setting up dual boot just for this...
which are the most popular DNS servers
What time does natty drop?
mythri cdrecord dev=/dev/hdc speed=24 driveropts=burnfree -dao -data /path/to/files
madhu, but you have a small amount of suffixes you should simple create a hosts file and distribute..
AustinWolfclaw, no one knows
ok
i installed ubuntu and it told me to restart when i did all it boots into is a blank black screen with a flashing underscore
i will check with bind9
ok I'll check it out right now.
well, most popular Linux ones, I'm sure the Microsoft one is terribly popular
ok
vibhav, all i can acess is my terminal and i m new to ubuntu..pls it would be greatful if u guide me through terminal
okkk
mythri type init 5
ya i installed bind9
or service gdm start
anyone?
Hello all
hmm, Microsoft's DNS server is a fork of BIND
Herbs, i need to backup all my files in ubuntu..to a cd..all i can acess is terminal on recovery mode
what's your question?
i installed ubuntu and it told me to restart when i did all it boots into is a blank black screen with a flashing underscore
yes, I saw that. what is your question?
ohhh
Hello everyone. Is there any information on detailed release schedule today?
no.
have you installed Windows?
whats going on ? why wont it boot???
oh wel...
wen i configured the named.conf.local
 Natty will be released at some point while it is 28 April in at least one timezone on the planet Terra in the system Sol
vibhav, yeah i have windows with me
hard to say. have you tried powering off and restarting?
vibhav,  i need to backup all my files in ubuntu..to a cd..all i can acess is terminal on recovery mode
yes
yeah, pretty informative ;-)
the files are on the ubuntu Drive or on the Windows Drive?
does anything appear on screen before it reaches that point?
it's April 28, can I upgrade now? or is it STILL beta?
does gnome-shell 1 provide ALT+TAB feature? Because in mine, it doesn't seem to work
vibhav, the files are on ubuntu drive
still beta until it's formally released.
mythri is the drive mounted rw?
 Natty will be released at some point while it is 28 April in at least one timezone on the planet Terra in the system Sol
vibhav, yeah i have windows with me
bah
On the Desktop?
sorry i fail at copy paste
Herbs,  i dont know i m new to ubuntu
mythri type mount -o remount,rw /
so, later today
damn
my motherboard splash screen
oh i see it scrolled while i copied
i can't wait any longer!
- On the Desktop?
quite likely, yes. join #ubuntu-release-party for breaking news.
- The files are on the desktop?
i copied what someone else said because the text scrolled while i was copying
vibhav, its in home folder
okk
vib in documets
- Can you boot to Windows?
IS it safe to uninstall FGLRX?
i dont have a windows box
hmm. without grub showing up, about all you could do is try installing again at this point.
grrr.....
hmm.. installed Handbrake-cli and it's not even in my applications menu. even tried opening it via terminal.. claims it doesn't exist.
as i said twice already, saying that to you was the result of accidentally copying what someone ELSE said
vibhav, wat can i do now
dpkg -L  packagename    <-- will list all files installed by the package
- Ill talk to you first and then to maco"
Guys, Does gnome-shell provide ALT+TAB feature? Because in mine, it doesn't seem to work... ANYBODY here have used gnome-shell?
uh, im headed to bed dude. dunno why you need to talk to me
might help to see what was actually installed. dpkg -L packagename will show what was actually installed.
no
vibhav, ok
natty support is still in #ubuntu+1 at this time
you give it the packagename directly and then can grep for a file within it
- I thought you changed your name to maco.....oops.....lolz
so do we have a timeframe for tomorrow?
Natty will be released at some point while it is 28 April in at least one timezone on the planet Terra in the system Sol
not at this time. join #ubuntu-release-party for breaking news.
- Do you have windows installed?
maco ah ok cool
that's unreasonably optimistic :)
you're right, stupid question
Hello everyone!
see you tomorrow. :)
it's the standard line for the last 4 years, and it's held true ;-)
Any idea when Ubuntu will release?
uhm.. how do I open the HandBrakeCLI UI?
Natty will be released at some point while it is 28 April in at least one timezone on the planet Terra in the system Sol
--help doesn't give me much info.
vibhav, yea i have a windows installed
cli would include it doesnt have a gui.....
illmortal, cli means command line interface, there is no gui
erm, s/include/imply/
illmortal, you dont, its cli
maco, you have that in your clipboard don't you.
- Can you boot to Windows on your Compueter
yes
I'm pretty sure it's slipped a few days in some years, but I don't have an example offhand.
oh lawd.
- Can you boot to Windows on your Computer
release slipped two months once :3
illmortal, you want gtk
6.06 was moved by a few months, but that was decided a lot earlier than 24h before
good for you, we need someone to fend off annoying people like me.
Yes, that is true, But any idea in how many more hours will the release be scheduled?
nashj, no
ya i need an interface... I tried using mencoder.. I can't access my external hard drive because it's named, "My Book" (with a space)
what is this "scheduled" of which you speak?
and I cannot rename my external HDD
Is the 11.04 release delayed? It's already almost the 28th in PST!?!
is it out yet??
it's ready when all the CDs come out not-broken
no
illmortal, its handbrake-gtk
ok bazhang
put a \ before the space, problem solved
:) I mean around what time will Natty be release. Any idea?
when it's ready
what1 it's two hours until the 28th pst
really? ok.. let me check. so i would type My\ Book?
lol! ok... thanks
i cannot predict the future to determine when the builds will work
nashj, no one knows stop asking
the ops should add 'no its not out yet' to the topic ;) not that it would help.
get me a crystal ball if you want a better answer!
better yet, join #ubuntu-release-party for breaking news
yes
velcroshooz, the topic already addresses that
ok ^^
imortal you could change the label on the drive and remount it or just remount it to a mount point without spaces
or use "my book"
anyone knows what time Ubuntu 11.04 will be released
I'm wondering why I have plugins activated in firefox such as DivX Web Player, iTunes Application Detecter, QuickTime Plugin-in and Shockwave Flash. I was hoping and thought that they are not available to Ubuntu. Are they fake and wrapped to totem or vlc?
Natty will be released at some point while it is 28 April in at least one timezone on the planet Terra in the system Sol
Im really tempted to write this bash script to tell you lol]
breaking news in #ubuntu-release-party
maco that can be +- 12 hours
yep
actually i think its +13/-12
is the 11.04 torrent out yet?
there is a UTC+13 timezone after all
No
trh
fg
dfghdf
gfhd
gfh
gf
:(
maco,  :)
ok one last question.. the video is 720p HD quality... should the bitrate still stay @ 1200?
that's a fairly technical question, and should probably be directed at a forum surrounding the converting application you're using.
ok
I had thought that 1500 was typical for xvid encoding of movies, at least.
hm... interesting.. I'll test both 1200 and 1500 :)
thank you guys for assisting me.. that was fast and helpful :D
Is the 11.04 release delayed? It's already almost the 28th in PST!?!
is it out yet??
大家好！
my thoughts exactly
no
no
wthf
already gone.
ahh
well it's not delayed it's just waitin
I did the same thing, except that I read what I typed first :)
that person only stayed for a total of one minute :) Guess there's some people with really itchy hands
see ubuntu doesn't sleep it just lies in wait like chuck norris
I type too fast to catch it
you are the keyboard ninja :)
Is there a ubuntu channel for newb questions?
here
 /exit
O.o
its the 28th in europe.... GIVE 11.04
breaking news in #ubuntu-release-party
!countdown
ayecee, i reinstalled it and its still messing up
renshai ubuntu-beginners
!countdown
bad news. do you have more than one hard drive?
no why
Natty will be released at some point while it is 28 April in at least one timezone on the planet Terra in the system Sol
:)
because I've seen that happen when the bios and linux have different ideas about the hard drive order, and grub ends up installed on the wrong disk.
could you add the release party channel in your copypasta? It would come off as more friendly.
I'm installing ubuntu via wubi, I would like to give the system 80GB but it will only let me give at the most 30.  How do I do this?
quit
exit
try /exit
or /quit
i haven't seen that before. is that a limit from wubi itself, for some reason?
I can't imagine why.  I have 119 MB free and the system is only 2 days old so I'm sure it isn't fragmented
How to get Fingerprint Scanners Work in ubuntu?
are we able to download the 11.04 official release yet?
I guess that was 119GB free
no. breaking news in #ubuntu-release-party
119GB free, yes
anthony_2409, you have to wait for 24 hours
at least!
why the delay in releasing 11.04?
new ubuntu is never released at midnight sharp
just wait, it will be released before the 29th
it isn't the 28th yet
if they were to release at 11:59 PM PST on the 28th, that would be in 25 hours
not that I'm saying that they said which time zone or hour
and thats only UTC-8! (though itd be PDT right now so -7)... imagine in UTC-12!
yeah  :)
30 more potential hours
When is 11.04 released because I am kinda hoping to have it up and running today
sometime before it stops being April 28th somewhere on the planet
happy ubuntu release eve!
Im In GMT
orBST
I'm installing ubuntu over my windows 7 netbook, happy day
Im not sure which
before the 29th
you could alwasy upgrade now and you will have it.
release team is also in BST, so probably before they go to bed :)
what time is it right now in BST?
thanks alot
7am
well it's 7am there
It is 1:54PM in china
why install over windows 7? windows 7 rocks
that was the question, yes
its very good and stable
Release manager's LP profile says America/Chicago timezone ;P
they all fly to london
lol
Ah. Curses!
yeah right
theGreatDane, troll. (anything not bashing windows is trolling)
although that would explain the release time tendencies
you read this in a book or just make it up as you go along?
I'm more productive on ubuntu, for a variety of reasons  :)
what? proq asked what time it is in britain *right now*
hey, how can I make all of my function keys perform their action without needing to have fn pressed? (i.e invert the fn button). thanks!
a little fom column A, a little from column B
so i rounded to the nearest hour... which is 7am. fine so its 6:55am technically, but close enough
argh
set keyboard shortcut preferences to what ever you want.
dc'ed
though i have no idea why i'm doing the `date` command's job
they dont' fly to london for a release just fyi
aroman, if you ever figure it out let me know. I want to kill HP so badly
well then i'd lose the ability to use Fwhatever keys
so pgraner did what? swam there?
aroman, I have gotten used to it overtime...
its just lame though
a few key people do go to london for it
i need two hands to do something i should be able to do effortlessly
aroman, apparently "no one uses the function keys"
anyone know that time natty is released?
>:
aroman, agreed
then not quite sure what you are trying to do?
before its the 29th in the last timezone
before the 29th
BarbaraBush, when it happens, it happens
the 28th here
"When it's done"
you can't have one key have two functions. You have to use a modifier like the Fn key
its not the 28th in california yet
it is done, was done yesterday lol
i want the modifier to be pressed all the time
and un-press when I actually press it
contrary to what your family believes the Bush's are not the centre of the universe :)
nor in the very last timezone, which is utc-12. still got 30 hours before the 28th ends!
hehe im not in cali  :P
e.g,
There haven't been updates for a couple of days now 11.04 has been done.
i know i was making fun of the duke nukem thing
thats why im in EU :P
Just download the daily iso if you people want it so bad
so where do i go to gripe about usability?
wrong, I got 40 packages updated earlier today
devs
there've been respins of the ISOs going on and language pack rebuilds and stuff
if I hit f1 which both maximizes and toggles volume mute, I want mute to be _default_
I came up with a good idea to beet the fact that all the apt mirrors will be overloaded. I will setup an ec2 instance with apt-cacher and download from the ubuntu ec2 mirror. What are the chances the ec2 mirror will be overloaded?
histo, that a channel? :P
then change your keyboard shortcut preferences
beat*
i'll just DL a torrent lol
like I said, then I lose the ability to ever call fullscreen with a hotkey
AustinWolfclaw, yeah, but you still can't install other packages
11.04 looks to be a bigger disappointment than i feared it would be
no you can assign that a different hotkey
I'm not on ubuntu...
but do what you want.
hmmph
I'm on windoes, i'm DLing the ISO
ok so i have been trying for 5 days to get help in #lubuntu with setting up a composite manager
torrent for the win
this is a very simple task
err i mean i'm going to dl the iso torrent
who's bright idea was it to make windows maximize at the top of the screen, making it impossible to put windows there?
I want to invert the fn key's function
AustinWolfclaw, but do you plan to install anything?
well they aren't going to completely change the interface because you don't like it
tanath, how so? 11.04 has up to date packages and an new kernel
AustinWolfclaw, the mirrors slow to a crawl
so my question is, what kind of performance difference will i see between 10.04, 10.10, and 11.04
invert from Fn to Nf?
just don't drag windows past the panel and they won't maximize
almost none at all.
you know, I think I'll write a wrapper that intercepts all Fwhatevery keys and maps them to my liking.
ah GUI noob :P
tanath, give it a bit of space. it will work
histo, have a look on youtube. i'm hardly the only one with issues
i know that 10.10 is a bit laggy @ times on this machine
please stop
i could knock that out in a few hours this weekend.
....?
thats a compiz setting
I don't have those issues
aroman, what you really need is something that makes the fn key always pressed
if you don't drag it past the top panel it won't maximize
lubuntu runs very well, but i am tired of not being able to get any help w/ setting it up
you can turn off the maximise on screen edge by changing your screen edge bindings in compiz
well maybe, but I think it ought to invert
further you drag the bigger it gets
tanath run gnome classic instead of unity, solved
aroman, when you press the fn key, it should then be un-fn
so i was hoping 10.04 would run smoother on this hardware
histo, nutsfornatty hope so. i haven't tested ubuntu's implementation of it yet. i presumed it'd work like my win7 experience, which i hated
aroman, yeah
precisely
from what I'm understanding, Unity will only be on Ubuntu and not the other flavors?
i'll do just that :)
aroman, I am thinking of how caps lock works
maco, thanks. i was wondering about that
AustinWolfclaw, correct
is this a mac? there's a tool somewhere for reversing their use
I've got a question that doesn't pertain to when natty is coming out. Who wants to hear it?
you hvae to go passed it as i've stated but you'll see for yourself
Please don't ask to ask a question, simply ask the question (all on ONE line and in the channel, so that others can read and follow it easily). If anyone knows the answer they will most likely reply. :-)
no, but regardless, that's a software setting in OS X
BarbaraBush_, actually, i like a number of things about gnome 3, except that it also does the maximize thing, and has eliminated applet support which i need
and in ubuntu...
oh it is?
where?
histo, mhm. thx
any AustinWolfclaw can you see why torrent does not help? What they need is to have apt use torrents!
yeah, we have a way to handle mac keyboards. lemme look it up again
It's called humor. Everyone is asking about natty. =P
oh right, that actually makes some sense
I think there's an "apt-torrent" package that does that.
I happen to have a mac with a mac keyboard.
#ubuntu-release-party would be more appropriate rather than here
Spaz_Dynamic, ok, not very funny though... I was kind of excited
Narwhals narwhals swimming in the ocean, causing a commotion, cuz they're pretty awesome
ayecee, but it is not in general use...
anyone know if i'll be able to use the win+a shortcut (compiz function) in unity?
and techinically, I didn't ask to ask a qustion, or ask who knew the answer, I asked who wanted to hear a question that wasn't "when is natty coming out"
Spaz_Dynamic, ok
 * smw raises his hand
actually
how many computers all over the world are now running ubuntu
12.
I think I can actually do this manually in Keyboard shortcuts
#ubuntu is the Ubuntu support channel, for all Ubuntu-related support questions. Please use #ubuntu-offtopic for other topics (though our !guidelines apply there too). Thanks!
not enough to get Adobe to port photoshop
42
ouyes, this can't be determined
Gimp FTW for Linux
echo 0 > /sys/module/hid_apple/parameters/fnmode
what kinds of things can i do to make 10.10 run better on lesser hardware?
!ot > AustinWolfclaw
Soon Gnome is gone
AustinWolfclaw, please see my private message
coldfish, that's your answer for everything ;0
granted i'd lose the normal Fkey function, but I can reassign most of the normal stuff
aroman, if you do it, let me know!
oh actually 1, not 0
* ;)
whoa, trying that now, thanks a ton
i spent yesterday using gimp, its growing on me
you could try using a different gui. Something like xfce or xubuntu etc...
haha, alright. So, I'm wanting to make a bootable USB for ubuntu, kubuntu, and xubuntu. Is it possible to make one stick bootable for all 3 live "CDs" It is 8GB so there is more than enough room.
tanath, haha,right and simple one :)
If I'm on 10.10 is it possible to upgrade to 11.04 yet, or are thtose packages not out yet?
there is help.ubuntu.com has low memory systems options
nutsfornatty, ive used gimp and photoshop, i prefer gimp by alot, ii just dont like a few bugs ive run into that have cost me 8 hrs of work
they are out
dunno if thatll work on a non-apple keyboard though. experiment time i guess
histo, appreciate it bro
I wasn't off topic, I was just using an interesting segue. =P
 * Barbarabush is a very strong man!
smw, just a aproxisimite number like 10 100 1000 1000,000
#ubuntu is the Ubuntu support channel, for all Ubuntu-related support questions. Please use #ubuntu-offtopic for other topics (though our !guidelines apply there too). Thanks!
it won't, the module isn't loaded. but I guess I could digaround and see if I could modprobe it somehow
ive tried xubuntu, and lubuntu, and had high hopes for lubuntu but lxde seems to be lacking too much that im used to with ubuntu
perhaps not interesting so much as long and slightly convoluted.
!ot rww
how do i open 'modules' ?
histo, by chance if you upgrade, do you know offhand how much extra hard drive space it uses? I ask because I only have 2gb left on my root partiion. I dont want to attempt it if itll tank it :(
Spaz_Dynamic, you might have a look at startup disk creator... dunno if it supports multiple though
ouyes, one googol (10^100)
what are you trying to do exactly?
#ubuntu is the Ubuntu support channel, for all Ubuntu-related support questions. Please use #ubuntu-offtopic for other topics (though our !guidelines apply there too). Thanks!
Spaz_Dynamic, I would say not. If I really wanted to put work into it, I would get the alternative install cds and combine them
see if i have !snd-pcm-oss in modules
smw, how would I do that then?
for a friend
kaatta, i think the basic gui is much better in gimp. photoshop is a bloated mess. tasks dont "flow" intuitively
nutsfornatty, gimp needs a lot of gui improvements though
Andre_Gondim, im on lubuntu now, i have been sitting in #lubuntu for 5 days asking for help getting a composite manager running (google is no help at all)
nutsfornatty, like 3 overlapping windows? >.<
Spaz_Dynamic, I know very little about ubuntu's usb thing. Does it run a iso in loopback?
and I believe it's snd_pcm_oss
nutsfornatty, the biggest issue i have with gimp, is on really large projects, the 'undo history' gets so long tthat it will freeze and crash in windows
tanath, true. i could see it being the pixelmator (on osx) type killer app for ubuntu with some refinement
What did you miss?
kaatta, there's also the ubuntu forums and askubuntu.com
nutsfornatty, i havent really used it in linux yet
why isn't mangler in the Ubuntu repos.
smw, I get a number for accessing ubuntuforums  4581000 ips per day
Spaz_Dynamic, for combining them, you get the alternative install cds, you look at the "pool" directory, and you combine them (they have the same file structure, some files are the same)
I don't know that myself. I know that the utility unetbootin uses 7zip to extract the images and then makes a modification to the MBR it
Why isn't ubuntu out yet!
i dont mind the windows. no worse than adobes floating bars
?
andrew_46, i cant find a composite manager that works properly for things like an app dock, and conky
because it's not
ubuntu has been out for years. =P
when 11.04 release
hfx, #ubuntu-release-party
Yes, thats what i mean
thanks
can upgrade now if you want
andrew_46, google doesnt show much of anything that i have found, and nothing that i found helpful @ all about what compositte manager i should even be looking for
cdoktor19, #ubuntu-release-party
Spaz_Dynamic, you then need to put all the preseed files in (with different names) and make menu entries
What are the specs on the computer?
Spaz_Dynamic, It is not easy, however, you will learn alot about the debian installer and automated installs ;-)
cairo compmgr is a good one that will work well
if you don't want to run compiz
Or you can try mudder I believe gnome3 is using that.
interesting... I may look into it.
where can i download ubuntu 11.04?
I thought it was "Mutter"
it's not out yet, so nowhere
hfx, cdoktor19 , if you jump the gun and upgrade before the official release time you won't clog the servers as much and suffer said clogging as much...
forceflow, on the main page there is a link to the beta
it is
it's the 28th across the us...
where's my 11.04?
oh! when will be out?
beta 2 -> update.... thats as close as you can get to 11.04 final atm
buhman1, it is not the 28th in California!
#ubuntu-release-party will tell you
isent ubuntu using UK release times? or still the french?
ok
Ubuntu doesn't use any particular timezone
^^
afaik it has been the 28th for ubuntu for atleast 7h now
histo, i searched the synaptic package manager for cairo-compmgr and didnt find it @ all
doesnt matter what timezone, there is no time set
it's 7am in the UK
rww i know
8 here
forceflow, buhman1, "Ubuntu 11.04 release is scheduled somewhere in the time period when it's April 28th somewhere in the world, not at a specific time"
oh, I read 17. Sorry.
lol
7 inch display!!!
a day is 49 hours :)
think i figured it out, testing, brb.
hehe maco
#ubuntu-release-party is driving me crazy I guess
i was awake at 24:00 here, checking if 11.04 was released :P
party party!
pooking around ftp's to see if it had been uploaded by mistake etc
seeing as there is no set time for the release, it really doesn't matter what time it is
sudo do-release-upgrade -d
since 11.04 was done the 27th
andrew_46, yea, its a 800x480 resolution, ubuntu installer window doesnt even support that. bottom of the screen is cut off
am still 10.04 Lts it just upgrade to 10.10
cdoktor19, and from there you can upgrade to next one. or you could skip and download iso from ubuntu.com
is 11.04 out yet?
no
is it coming out today?
yes
!party > ttuttle
ttuttle, please see my private message
cool.
thanks
i will wait to download iso
!party > cdoktor19
cdoktor19, please see my private message
any idea when it will be out????
!upgrade > cdoktor19
!party > dani_
dani_, please see my private message
dani_,  "Ubuntu 11.04 release is scheduled somewhere in the time period when it's April 28th somewhere in the world, not at a specific time"
waste of time inviting people
in the next 24 hours
people join it and leave again
just take the channel down lol
correction, what smw said
Spaz_Dynamic, we are both correct
Spaz_Dynamic, in 24hours and 40minutes it will not be April 28th anywhere
konaya@carbon:~$ date
Thu Apr 28 08:18:39 CEST 2011
It's the 28th. Where is it? :P
!party > konaya
konaya, please see my private message
not true. california it will still be the 28th, and hawaii and etc
too fast ;)
!ot > smw Spaz_Dynamic
smw, please see my private message
Mangler needs to be included in the repos.
!ot > Spaz_Dynamic
Spaz_Dynamic, please see my private message
you can build a deb and submit it.
Spaz_Dynamic, not in 24hours and 40 minutes
histo, there are three people in #ubuntu-release-party. No, three idling clients, my bad. Feels more productive asking a question in an active channel if you ask me
smw, then it will be still in hawaii still
You're incorrect.
there more than 3 and it is off topic here
Spaz_Dynamic, maybe, I don't know hawaii, I thought they were PST
I show 210 people there. :-)
210
Sup everyone
Well im glad that 11.04 is released soon
im not idle konaya :P
Oh.
Guys.
The topic.
what about it?
Theres a lot of peopl here in okinawa who wan't it lol
It's an exclamation mark after the release party channel name.
Xchat assumes it's part of the name. :P
ah
i'm not sure about that, but i'm GMT -5, and hawaii can't be more than 6 hours behind me, so thats GMT-11
#ubuntu is the Ubuntu support channel, for all Ubuntu-related support questions. Please use #ubuntu-offtopic for other topics (though our !guidelines apply there too). Thanks!
so does the freenode web client
is 11.04 out yet?
That's more like it :) sorry about the confusion and the off-topicness
!party > quellhorst
quellhorst, please see my private message
Spaz_Dynamic, I am east coast too
no
!party > quellhorst
can't find that ppa you mentioned.
one sec...
geohot gave his old hacker friends the L:P to the PSN master server after he got hired by sony? he only took the job from sony (as part of the master plan) to take down the PSN?
#ubuntu is the Ubuntu support channel, for all Ubuntu-related support questions. Please use #ubuntu-offtopic for other topics (though our !guidelines apply there too). Thanks!
:)
k
it breaks up the "when is 11.04 gonna be released though"
because i just deleted it
yes
I know, thats part of why I kept going on about timezones with smw. xD
Launchpad seems to be on lockdown
why isn't lubuntu endorsed by canonical?
Ah...
Spaz_Dynamic, because lubuntu is lxde which is hard to use?
yeah, I didn't see why.
the less support i provide to ubuntu myself, the more they'll take on their own responsibility... just like every other distro
how is it hard?
Spaz_Dynamic, Well, it is too simple
Spaz_Dynamic, not specifically hard
Spaz_Dynamic, canonical has limited resources, they cant support every offshoot distro with a different DE
I use puppy linux. its rather simple and I love it for that.
Spaz_Dynamic, I am not saying that makes it bad. It makes it the opposite of ubuntu
But I want a more fluffy OS for my desktop, so I use a 'buntu flavor
aaahh, ok
!ot > Spaz_Dynamic
Spaz_Dynamic, please see my private message
hi do you know any alternative to pyLoad (it has to run on a non-gui system and provide a web-interface)
im going to cry now
I dun wanna. You just keep saying the same thing to me over and over. It's akin to spamming, and I don't approve.
I am only a bot, please don't think I'm intelligent :)
well then stop being offtopic
it looks like they need a package for natty but they probably missed that deadline as well.
hahaha
you see why this is so frustrating?
they need to release a package for the development version.
Yes....  a sea of confusion.
so it can be tested etc.. and made sure that it doesn't break anything etc...
otherwise it will be in ppa. Or you can build from source.
this is why i think not distributing a deb and not running a PPA will force their hand...  especially when they find out there's new features they can't use
Hi all, running 11.1 Beta 2, and see that my nvidia driver is enabled but not in use, how can I enable it?
/j #ubuntu+1
ok
or do I have to wait until it is released to ubuntu.com ?
g105b, no
 I agree...  Mangler should go primetime now.  PPA is just ugly.
g105b, thats daily build
"oh... you use ubuntu?  yeah... me too... the software is developed on ubuntu and it works perfectly.... but no you can't use it because ubuntu bureaucracy means you have to compile it yourself.  or.... well... go complain in #ubuntu i guess"
my pidgin is not working
it would if someone would submit a deb to teh development version
... I'm just excited to get 11.04 upgraded
it's not that hard of a process to understand and there are reasons for it.
help me!!! my pidgin is not working
can you describe not working
what are you on about?
i want the 11.04 iso image
:(
we have a way to get packages into stable releases
!arb
i don't care what the reasons for your packaging bureaucracy are...  i write software... not packing stuff for operating system s
!party > forces
forces, please see my private message
bah
just because natty is released today doesn't mean it's already released and stable
it's not my policy. it's pretty much every distros
it just failed to login on pidgin ...HELP!!
we've been in arch and gentoo for like 1.5 years
does anyone know what time 11.04 will be up for download?
same question here
submit your package to the application review board if you want to get it into a stable release
2 minutes.
Natty will be released at some point while it is 28 April in at least one timezone on the planet Terra in the system Sol
party in #ubuntu-release-party
if a user of a distro wants a package. They will submit a deb/rpm/whatever distro plox to a development version so it can be added to official repositories
hah.... did that about a year and a half ago
it didnt exist a year and a half ago
how to solve dependency conflict when two packages need a different version of some other package?
arch/gentoo development is faster because they are rolling releases
1.0.0 was released on dec 2009, correct
was in repos on arch and gentoo within weks
*weeks
i bet it was in aur in arch not official repos first
or testing
yes... i understand that it's not as fast... but seriously... a year?  seriously?
it is in aur
this process is 6 months old. i have no idea how you purport to have done it a year before it existed
and there is a maintainer
I don't know what you want. Distros that just accept any code without it being vetted or requested that would work out well.
when i released 1.2.2 two days ago, aur was updated within 3 hours
aur is a user repo like ppa's
your app is in ppa so I don't understand the issue
sure... but it's available without my having to do anything... now i've stopped making debs... it'll be someone elses problem... gentoo on the other hand is official
how to solve dependency conflict when two packages need a different version of some other package?	
I agree with your stance.
no... i've deleted my ppa because i don't want to maintain it and since i've provided debs, no one else has really cared
now that i'm not providing those, you're going to get complaints
Are you installing via dpkg or apt ?
dpkg
then maybe nobody wants the app?
What package?
it's a user based distro
yeah... that's what it is...
community based distro
gtk
ubuntu users are the majority of our userbase
then one of them will make a ppa and produce a deb i'm sure.
if you dont want to maintain it, did you at least file a needs-packaging bug in ubuntu or (better) a work-needing bug in debian?
are you serious?  do you even know what this app is and why ubuntu would be the primary userbase?
ventrillo client or something right?
there's been a needs packaging bug for over a year
Did you downmoad gtk?
i for one have not the slightest idea what app you are talking about
yes
from gtk.org
when new Ubuntu version will released?
all packages
(i also probably dont care if im getting on fine without it)
!part > wieldy_BIOS
today
!part > Callum__
!party > wieldy_BIOS
wieldy_BIOS, please see my private message
heh
!party
I am giving Ubuntu 10.10 a test run on my main gaming rig (loving it so far ^.^) and i recently found Mangler which solved my biggest issue of not having a native ventrilo client for linux. I was astonished when i found out that there is a built-in applet for my Logitech G15 keyboard!
I was just about to ask his question, heh, oh well
ok-ok
I understand your complaint but that's how ever distro works
but really the bit about "they'll take on their own responsibility" ... the majority of ubuntu devs are volunteers taking care of the packages they care about and ignoring others. the ones being forced to take care of certain packages for their job are in the minority and since your software isnt part of the default install, they won't be forced to touch it at all
i dont' care how the distro works
okay
wtf... seriously?  do you want to take a second to amend that comment before i respond?
we're just trying to explain
hi. I am on 10.10
not particularly. nobody except the canonical employees are REQUIRED to do anythng for ubuntu
do you think i make any money from this?  do you think i have some personal gain to make?
fame?
dunno
you and every other linux dev
I want to change default resolution of the console. tried messing with grub2, but it has no effect. I think I need to do something related to fb, but I don't know how with grub2.
I added gfxpayload=1024x768x16
is the new 11.04 due out today? i just checked the website and its still 10.10?
im just saying, nobody in particular has any responsibility to anyone else when it comes to what they package, unless its their *job*. its volunteer work. people can CHOOSE to take it or live it
add a vga mode to
some time later today
i've got projects way more important than this retarded project...  my fame for this crap will never be important
ahh thx
ok. trying... will be back.
please don't use offensive language
vbeinfo is supposed to print out the vga modes list ?
the above line was for you :)
sorry
then perhaps the project needs to be picked up by someone else. That's how linux works I don't know what you want.
here let me get you link you need something like vga=771
crap is considered offensive language?
by the way, ive scrolled back pretty far in the backlog to as far back as i can see you first talking, and i dont actually see you ever saying what software it is you want someone to package, so i guess i wont be picking it up as my next upload
i just want someone to package it so i don't have to spend an entire weekend building packages for debian based systems... that's all
Gtk.org do not load, but it is not easy (or sane) to override version.
I would put a message on your forums asking for such
I ran vbeinfo in grub shell.
there was no "771" in it
and for that matter, just ask that it be packaged for *debian* -- no reason to package for debian and ubuntu separately. if its in debian, it'll be sync'd to ubuntu automatically
I wrote down and it looks like 0x117 (which would translate into 279)
whatever "it" is (i still don't know)
That means you cannot use 771
so can I use the hex. codes from vbeinfo output ?
it was comparison to the mentally disabled that was offensive
thanks, there.
while I boot my ubuntu 10.10 I get a *underscore* blinking for about 4 seconds, is there any way to replace it by ubuntu boot screen?
 how about redonkulous then.
there were other words used
scrollback
ya know... a good portion of my users are blind... and they use an ubuntu deriviative called vinux, which is a derivative of ubuntu for blind users.   We have worked with them extensively within our app to make sure they had accessibility.  All the while, we were able to maintain casual conversation and even *heaven forbid* make jokes about blindness...  do you really take yourself that serious?
nope just don't understand what you want? or what your question is? perhaps there is a miss comunication
i still dont know what your software is, but i will say "thank you for actually bothering with accessibility, unlike just about everyone else"
I'm just trying to help and explain why it is the way it is.
a ventrillo client. It's a voice chatting app.
i learned a few weeks ago that 10.10 wasnt installable at all if you're blind and 11.04 is only slightly installable
hi everyone... can anyone suggest a walkthrough or guide to help take necessary steps to secure my ubuntu install.  Just want to make sure I am making my install the most secure I can make it..
join #c
incidentlally... vinux includes mangler by default.... because it's useful
is that the name of the software?
is it just a default install?
mangler
vinux is the name of the OS
hi there
hallo
yeah i know about vinux. ubuntu-accessibility team works with them. im asking "is mangler the name of the software you've been ranting about for the last half hour without naming it?"
tuckaway, is it just a simple desktop install? There is little to secure.
Histo -> yes just the default install.. i have been running ubuntu for about 18 months now and i need to learn how to secure my desktop
secure it from?
lock it down!
tuckaway, what do you mean "secure". What types of attacks are you afraid of?
thanks. like i said earlier, i scrolled back as far as i saw you talking, and the earliest i see is you telling qin that you deleted....something.. and then just usng "it" to refer to the software so...
just want to make sure i am not leaving anything open on the machine by default.... file sharing, ssh, things of that nature...
tuckaway, what would you do to "secure" windows? What types of attacks do you fear?
i installed an ubuntu server 10.04 a few days ago and i'm stocked with an pci express ethernet card with realtek chipset r8168 somebody could help me ?
well if you don't enable them then no.
i'm frustrated by debian/ubuntu... i shouldn't take it out on you
tuckaway, those are not run by default
tuckaway, I don't even think those are installed by default
don't install stuff you don't need, don't run stuff you needn't, check running services if they are configured as restrictive as possible and "use /dev/brain"
well i am an ubuntu dev, but in general we prefer *not* to add new packages just to ubuntu, rather they go through debian so A) more users get it and B) more hands to help
most people set up /dev/brain > /dev/null
 graph
common mistake :(
tuckaway, if you were making a kiosk or something where you are afraid of people with physical access, there is alot to do.
alright maybe i am looking to much into this...
just 2 years into linux and learning
tuckaway, yes, probably. For public computers, it is way to easy to gain root if you have physical access.
hello
hallo
:)
so what time will the official release happen today ?
tuckaway, so a school, internet kiosk, etc, would need some work.
there is no set time
 thanks smw
well... I am sorry for this question... but I read a lot of FAQs and... I couldn't solve my instalation's problem
any1 know what xinetd is?
its a process running on my box\
lwizardl, "Ubuntu 11.04 release is scheduled somewhere in the time period when it's April 28th somewhere in the world, not at a specific time"
may I ask for some help about how to install ubunto for netbook?
rww, can I have that as a bot cmd?
that would be sweet :-)
where is conicals "home country" ?
Isle of Man
bah not you
and now you know why we restrict editing factoids :)
Isle of Man
though their office is in london
ok
tsimpson, yep. Still you have got to admit that would be a nice factoid :-P
ty
:)
for one day, not really...
Tax Haven what?
tsimpson, fine, I will keep it in my clipboard
most clients will let you set command aliases, set one to send that message
??? nobody to help?
you havent asked a question
what's your problem?
..., but I expected it to do ..."
or at least not a question beyond "can i ask a question?" level
you are right maco... but I explained it
my problem
is...
I am installing ubunto in my netbook
where already I have installed W7
and it has 4 partitions already...
I have no options in ubunto to installing with win7
That's something W7 does, recovery partitions etc
only erase all the disk
or manually
yes
I know Walther
but my question... Have I another option?
I mean... I don't want to delete my partitions because my job
would it be safe if  I remove quiet and splash from GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash nomodeset video=uvesafb:mode_option=1280x1024-24,mtrr=3,scroll=ywrap"
i think you need to use manual since once there are 4 primary partitions, you cant fit any more at all. you need to get rid of a primary and put in an extended, then you can put lots in the extended one
possibly one of these is already extended, even
I want Ubuntu boot menu instead of the blinking *underscore*
got it maco... it is not a bad idea
but the 4-primary-max is just plain a hard drive thing, not an ubuntu thing
... I think more than one is extended... but isntalations system don't allow me to install it
maco... in anycase... if I put one as extended... if do I format the primary upper this extended... the extended will be formated too?
Official release out yet?
Hi, does anyone here have information about where I can get release version of 11.04?
Will 11.04 beta2 be upgradable to the official release?
its due out later today
yes
Yes
thanks
of course it is upgradeable, but i'd still recommend a clean install
not out yet, release manager will announce at some time today
i've been through so much trouble after failed upgrades
anyone have an estimate of what time it'll be out?
can't wait)))
thank you
UBUNTU COMES TODAY !°!!
i,m waiting to download it, have to say tho, i am not sure about Unity yet, looks weird
yeah, considering a clean install...
but guys
!ot
...
hello
I can't consider a clear install... too much information very important... and moreover... I need to work with win7 because university and job
go with the manual partitioning, merge some partitions and make space for ubuntu
i have a dumb question about mounting a file system. I've mounted this drive many times before but i just installed ubuntu server and i can't remember the file system type nor how to properly edit fstab. any help pointing me to a howto/tutorial?
i just made a 100GB partition in preperation for the new release, i think i may wubi it first tho just to check it out
where to put auto commands in Xchat?
vibhav, it is under the server configuration
ok WaltherFi... got it... but it doesn't work. I tried already and doesn't work because I have already 4 primary partitions
where smw?
When does 11.04 go live?
"sudo blkid" gives you the filesystem-type, man mount / man fstab should help to get a working fstab-line
vibhav, server -> network list -> choose a server -> edit
on a side note, i wonder why wubi only allows a 30gb max size during setup
vibhav, it is the "connect command"
When does Ubuntu 11.04 go live?
Thanks!
wubi is not recommended
there is no set time
today
well... maybe next question is easier... for community... I have ubunto in a usb-key. Now I am running it in my netbook. I have internet connection... and I am trying to install aircrack-ng suite there... but I can't not... it say "dependency is no satisfiable:iw" What is happening?
hej
Hi everyone!
aircrack-ng is not officially supported
for that, ask some other channel
oh geez... i know what i'm doing wrong :p i forgot the 1 in sdc1
thanks llutz
mmm got it
ok ok...
well i have 10.10 proper install on the desktop, putting the new release on my lappy
I will try install ubunto by your advices...
wubi often breaks after some use, it is not intended for long-term usage
there is another release? yesterday I downloaded the last one... it was not 10.10?
ahh
11.04 releases today
i totally advice for installing alongside
hi
im a nice guy
congratulations
thanks
!offtopic
#ubuntu is the Ubuntu support channel, for all Ubuntu-related support questions. Please use #ubuntu-offtopic for other topics (though our !guidelines apply there too). Thanks!
uuuh today... for netbook version too? I will check it right now... maybe I have a solution there....
I've tried your link, and implemented.
thank you for all the answers .ç:) I will try to continue from this point.
have a nice day!!! :)
As of now during the boot - GRUB2 does set the graphic mode correctly. BUT after that somehow the setup changes to something I don't want.
Try sys>prefs>monitors
Please advice on how do I change Unity to Gnome and would Desktop version of 11.04 have Unity as default desktop environment too?
launch party channel name ?
#ubuntu-release-party
yes it would, but I read the switch is easy.. you just pick gnome during the login screen.
thanks
Also, natty is still not supported here until after the official release
oh, thanks
Can anybody help me in streaming on my network which has 2 ubuntu boxes?
until today, then
what do the guys in #ubuntu+1 do when the new release is live? just idle and stay silent for a couple of months?
professor, isn't that a few hours away? :-P
yes
Until -later- today
Can anybody help me in streaming on my network which has 2 ubuntu boxes?
DirtyDawg, then they can stop splitting their attention and just help in #ubuntu
ahh
sorry to be rude.   do you know what I am talking about ?
vibhav, stream what?
stream media like videos
What graphics card do you have?
are you a bot ?
stream media like videos
thanks for your explanation
I'm trying to reconfigure console resolution.
Hello all
What graphics card do you have?
intel
sobersabre, as in when it is not running in the gui?
hey smw i want to stream Videos
aye.
Have you tried the applet in system>preferences>Monitors?
I've been given a VPS with almost no information about it and told "migrate to this." As a first step, I did 'apt-get update && apt-get upgrade' and it tried to install grub. I told it not to. What are the chances that I screwed things up?
sobersabre, that needs to be fixed in grub
hey smw i want to stream Videos
sobersabre, add the option vga=??? where ??? is a 3 digit number representing your display
I have yet to change vga=xxx, which I will try now.
vibhav, I know littel about that
smw thats fine
smw never mind
sobersabre, that is the only way I know how and I have done it many times
I tried gfxmode, gfxpayload but it apparently changed only what was happening in grub menu.
OK. trying now.
thanks.
how many hours till i can download natty?
<sobersabre> what are you trying to do?
I don't think vga=xxx is supported with kms
horse_play - by tomorrow
horse_play, "Ubuntu 11.04 release is scheduled somewhere in the time period when it's April 28th somewhere in the world, not at a specific time."
#ubuntu-release-party
to get to a resolution I want in the console.
K_45, but its the 28th already?
You use video=1280x1024@60
<sobersabr> Ohh , thats easy
soreau, um, it has always worked for me...
are you on grub2 ?
worksforme doesn't hold much weight
horse_play, read my quote
horse_play - timezone differences and the serves need to be updated
<sobersabr> Install Startup Manager from UBuntu Software Center
<sobersabre> Install Startup Manager from UBuntu Software Center
Is Unity still going to be the default for 11.04 or have they moved to KDE ?
sobersabre, yes
preferences->monitors doesn't hold in console :)
what is unity?
<EbanSoul> no they are using Unity
Right, I misunderstood you in the first place
in what context.
smw, K_45 ok thanks
soreau, yours looked better anyways
soreau, much better than a random 3 digit number
you don't see the context?
Basically what you're seeing is when the intel module is loaded with kms
<EbanSoul> Is Unity still going to be the default for 11.04 or have they moved to KDE?
proq, lmao
Unity is a shell interface for the GNOME desktop environment developed by Canonical Ltd for its Ubuntu operating system
i heard that X is to be replaced by Wayland, is that right?
video=VGA-1:800x600
@ DirtyDawg, eventually
:o
a shell interface - do you mean a terminal emulator?
DirtyDawg, one day. X must die
:(
But the name VGA-1 may be different
unity is a new (I'm not sure which:) desktop or windows manager.
<sobersabre> You can use Startup Manger to Change your resolution?
@ smv - legacy needs to go
its not a terminal emulator
I don't know where does VGA-1 come from.
<sobersabre> I know an easier method to do that
to do what ?
<sobersabre> To change the resolution
edit a text file, and run update-grub.
<sobersabre> there is a progrma for that too
to change reso of console ?
I'm trying to find it now..
hint would be nice :)
<sobersabre> there is a progrmam for that too (to change resolution of grub)
I like your eagerness to help. initially I thought you're not listening.
my bad.
Should a VPS install grup? I did apt-get upgrade and it tried to install grub
not resolution of GRUB
I didn't think grub was installed before.
of console.
*grub
ok ?
<sobersabre>  Ok
usually no need for a boot-manager on a vps
what irc client are you using? (I know I can /whois you, I prefer asking)
<sobersabre> I use Xchat
has anyone seen this before? "(initramfs) Can not mount /dev/loop0 (/cdrom/casper/filesystem.squashfs) on //filesystem.squashfs"
what irc client are you using? (I know I can /whois you, I prefer asking)
hell, I got lagged over ssh.
<sobersabre> I use Xchat as my IRC Client
how can i reinstall iscsi-initiator-utils package on Citrix XenServer 5.6?
<sobersabre> Why do you ask?
ask citrix
so... once 11.04 is out... how do I change back to Gnome 2? ;-)
b/c all the people append NICK:, and yours appends <NICK>
@ phoque_uni - Switch to Debian
 i am thinking of using the new Gnome 3
my client colors lines with  NICK:
K_45, hah
<phoque_uni> in the login session chose Ubuntu Classic Session
so I know when somebody is writing to me. on the chan
@ phoque_uni - nothing like a stable netinst
Could anyone please tell me how to open a port in ubuntu?
learn to use the session-menu from gdm
<sobersabre> ok
vibhav, ah cool... so they thought of that. thanks
:-)
<phoque_uni> You are welcome
just start the program, it will open the port automaticly
capisci ?
<GReeNtooTH> sudo iptables -A INPUT -p tcp --dport (port number) -j ACCEPT
thanx iceroot
hi
and vibhav
<sobersabre> what do you mean by "capisci"
it means "understand" i think
<sobersabre> what do you mean by "capisci"
you would apt-get install it I suppose
just a wild guess
i cant set eth1 as default for ntop
hello
hi
hi damno
i have a strange problem...
#ubuntu-us-ky
tell
i'm tring to stop php-fpm with /etc/init.d/php5-fpm stop
Sorry, I don't know anything about wank
but i always see the processes doing ps aux
could someone help me?
I cant seem to find it right now but you have to cat something in /proc IIRC..
how about new ubuntu release ?
i by mistake removed my menu pannel , how to get it back
Anyone know if we can upgrade from 10.04 to 11.04?
you can do that
Thanks. I am assuming it does not involve going through 10.10 first.
hi
anybody from argentina
?
have you tried to right click and add it back
"add to panel"
menu / main menu
DirtyDawg:right clicking is not giving option for it
is it possible to change the owner of a file in /var/www/ for non-admin users to access? I tried sudo chown username -R path but that didn't work
RKyle, what file, what user and what did that command yield?
DirtyDawg:hi this worked firdtly i think it will not going to work but it worked gconftool --recursive-unset /apps/panel && killall gnome-panel
phoque_uni, I had a directory in /var/www/ I was trying to give access to a non-admin user and the command displayed nothing like it worked
hi
when is the ubuntu 11.04 becomeing available for download?
when its done
gimme gimme gimme
 * ugisozols gives
wasn't it suposed do be done today?
yes, "today" still lasts a few hours
Yeah...there are still 15 hours left "today"
this error is kicking my butt, cannot install ubuntu :(
do you know when will it be done?
it will be released somewhere today, be patient
what's the error
Depends on your timezone.
(initramfs) Can not mount /dev/loop0 (/cdrom/casper/filesystem.squashfs) on //filesystem.squashfs"
CET
Last release was quite early in the day
if your close to UTC that is
lol
my cristal ball told me what to expect in #ubuntu
it seems it was right
You don't need a crystal ball to expect abounding inpatience
when can I expect it?
within the next 23 hours
same thing twice a year
thank you very much
:) so true :)
(:
wanan make a bet how long the server holds out?
probably more like within the next 10 hours to be honest
Hi all
about 15 minutes
probably less
5 minutes
thats the time it takes for the word to spread
I'm a bit impatient too, because tonight I have to install a Ubuntu on a friend's netbook to replace 9.10 and I really hope it will be 11.04 :)
I would install latest daily if I were you
I'm using the beta, seems to work fine
because latest daily is probably very close (or even similar) to the next release
latest daily, thats new to me, too - what is that?
just the daily build on CD
it'll be that one and upgraded as needed if the images won't come out untill then :)
anyone know how to tell casper to start an app on start?
from vcs ?
There havent been many updates in the last 24 hours - only the timezone package - so I guess I am now running 11.04
latest daily are iso files that are created every day
from vcs?
i tried a few things like an entry in .xsessionrc in /etc/skel
Yeah from VCS
so far nothing :(
what is VCS ?
something like svn cvs or git
Im assuming he means Version Control
versioning control
all packaged are managed by LP/BZR
Version Control System
so yes...its from VCS
ah well bzr
i forgot :P
System > Preferences > Startup Applications
that was also my guess, but didn't find the link
How many people are using Emapthy for IRC here?
Hello
hopefully 0
lol
i'm working on a remixed cd
well I am
do someone know how to get 11.04 final release?
It sucks but I loe the integration
Guess I'll give this minimal CD install a shot
Hi
love*
wheres the place to look for the release?
so i'm dealing w/ casper directly
ah no idea then
Anyone know how to hack Empathy to support SASL auth?
I hate Samoa!
Wait.
 * kichawa are waiting
 * vibhav is waiting
 * vibhav is waiting LIKE MAD!!
anyone know anything about getting wifi to work on 10.10
Will these commands get me a facebook password?
this is what I would use
what's your wifi chipset
echo "1" > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward
is it the final release?
Is the Oversized CD Bug fixed????
Ok I found it
it's the first i use ubuntu
No its the daily build
iptables -t nat -A PREROUTING -i wlan0 -p tcp --dport 8080 -j REDIRECT --to-port 8080
i ubuntu in a virtual box - VBoxGuestAdditions is installed but still the max resolution i can select is 800x600
what does "source" do? (no manpage), I know it doesn't execute a file... but something like that?
@vibhav - installing from a USB stick is much faster than CD..
@JE0cket1 I know
any suggestiongs how to increase it?
help source
In bash?
arpspoof -i wlan0 -t (Vic IP) (DG)
what's the difference? when will the final be released?
ettercap -TqM ARP:REMOTE // // -i wlan0
ls /sys/class/drm/ and use these to make a kernel line video=VGA-1:1024x768 for example
sslstrip -a -l 8080
i can't hear vioce.anybody help me please
the final release is out today
pidh, interesting, but i think it isnt related with vboxguestadditions. can you poste your Xorg.0.log client file
though on the website it is still seen as in development
take it to #1338-hackers please, its offtopic here
why don't you use something like pastebin
that 2
ok llutz is it on here
chip set = AR9285
so the new ubu comes out ..?
everyone needs to put their epeen back in the trouders now
do you know where to find the final relesae?
trousers(/pants)*
Help! No Ubuntu 11.04 final
waiting it for 2 months
WAIT!
<Manohar> IF you are Indian , it will be there by evening.....
anyone know how to upgrade chromium on ubuntu 10.10 to chromium 11? I would think there would be a ppa for this and im not sure why the current ppa hasnt been upgraded yet
ok
Canonical HQ is GMT+1 now
Anyone can confirm that the basic 11.04 will be good for a Asus eeepc?
they have barely woken up yet
I'm indian but live in switzerland
alexander__, mention, that ubuntu will be released during the day
I am not sure as the website says it is still in development so i think we will need to wait until they have uploaded the new 11.04
ath9k module should work fine
vadviktor, yes....it will be amazing
andeeeuk, correct, will be released today
yep, the only solution is to wait then..
i keep getting "bad password"
They've merged netbook remix and desktop, so one assumes so
<MACscr> If you are in hurry, the exact same packages are already available in the Stable Channel PPA as usual, for Hardy, Karmic, Lucid, Maverick and Natty. You can safely subscribe to this PPA and later receive the official builds with your regular system upgrades.
when ubuntu out new version ?
whens natty released ?
when ubuntu out new version ?
? so type in the right one
stable channel ppa?
lol it is the right one
The time at Canonical HQ is now 9:28.......give them chance to wake up and get to the office before you complain or ask where 11.04 is!!
Incarus6, thanks just wanted to make sure as I was going to update this morning though we will have to wait some time for the release
thanks! :)
When? I'm located in Italy (10:29 AM)
MACscr, chromium in the repos is a modified version of the original google sources. better wait for updates from ubuntu, they modified some privacy things
im using Wicd network mang.
did you pick the right network security type
where have you read that?
is that just hearsay or does it have some basis?
yup and have triple checked on both ends
hi guys, i had a question. I'm running 10.10 right now and am wondering if there's any difference in system stability whether I install 11.04 brand new or just do an upgrade
i tried changing to a new password as well still did the same thing
Technically you can dist-upgrade but it's usually better and cleaner to fresh install
@Rehan
Hello :) How much time is it till the 11.04?
A few hours
alexander__, usually I (from Germany) can upgrade around afternoon
do you have wpa_supplicant installed (you should but...never hurts to double check)
If I use the update manager as "update-manager -d" I can upgrade to 11.04. Is this correct? Should I continue as it is the stable one?
but isnt 11 the current stable release?
thanks
yes...that's right....but not yet
I want clean install
guest345345, it is mentioned in the user guide
thanks...is there a way to backup the current system i have?
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
 yup its there
what do you been by not yet? :)
What do you need to back-up?
that won't change the version unless you changed your sources.list(s)
MACscr, it is, but usually you do not get the never version of a software, you get security updates (its like FF4, which wasnt released in 10.10)
it seems that today it is the 28th of April 2011
personally, I have a script for configuting every new system in Install automatically
i don't know, i was wondering if there's a way i could just make a snapshot of my current system in case the new version doesn't work for me
alexander__, same, they are going to upload it around that time
You can just copy your /home directory but it's not very clean
what is this, Centos? =P
I see no reason why it wouldn't work.....I've been testing since alpha and it's very stable now
MACsrc, we are both talking about ubuntu, right?
yes, i was making a joke about updates
try it out using the Live image first and see if you like it and it all works...
well 10.10 is considered stable but it was a pain in the ass to get working properly on my sony laptop
I see now, it is still the beta as stated in it's note
yeah, what JR0cket1 said
MACsrc, im not sure if chromium 11 will be released in 11.04
the liveCD doesn't work well for me, the 10.10 liveCD made it seem as if ubuntu wouldn't run on my machine at all
 any ideas on how to fix it?
Any idea how many hours we have until they release 11.04?
that is probably because of restricted drivers....you can still install them and try to in the Live environment
elzoog, "Ubuntu 11.04 release is scheduled somewhere in the time period when it's April 28th somewhere in the world, not at a specific time."
and 11.04 has improved a fair bit on the drivers front
i had to change video, network and other drivers just to get it to work. I didn't know it was possible to install drivers with a LiveCD?
Well, where I am located, it's 5:35 in the afternoon on the 28th
pidh, it could have something to do with your vbox settings
which architecture image should I get, the x86 or the x64 one?
Unluck....because the work day has barely started at Canonical HQ
Unlucky*
depends which eee pc
what time zone are you in
i am going to install the daily built (26 April). cannot see them adding too much more release
anyone know what ATI video support is like in natty?
I live in Korea
elzoog, aw
yay, its finally been released on the website :)
if you're on an atom....x86
If you need to add a lot of packages, install Ubuntu onto a usb stick rather than your hard drive and then you can install what you want without issue
pidh, did you modify your xorg.conf file?
10:36 AM in France, it's so long
GMT+ ?
good stuff:)
anyone know what time GMT the new version is coming out?
andeeeuk, sure?
thanks, that is the info I was not aware of
No set time, just anytime in the next 15 hours
yeah, gmt time for ubuntu 11.04 would be nice
oh i see, thanks Djones
英语不行，别鄙视
I made the mistake of installing Ubuntu Studio on my desktop.  It's buggy.  But I am waiting for 11.04 instead of installing the normal 10.10
Das Schweizer Team finden sie unter #ubuntu-ch, deutschsprachigen Support bekommen sie aber in #ubuntu-de, #kubuntu-de oder #edubuntu-de. Aus regionalen Gründen ist im Schweizer Channel nur Englisch erlaubt. Geben sie einfach /join #ubuntu-at ein! Danke für ihr Verständnis.
damn
a good 4 GB Usb memory still will run Ubuntu 11.04 well for testing your hardware and save you over-writing you current system
i enabled the 3d capabilities will disable them, and i did try to add a new video mode before installing the guest addon and because of that it may look different
You can just dual boot to try it if you are worried a LiveUSB will skew the experience too much
oh ok, thats a good idea. I tried creating a bootable usb for 10.10 but kept getting "boot error' on startup
and then overwrite both when you're ready to upgrade for real
no, not yet. If it is not released yet we will wait and waiting is a good thing isnt it so we know it is all good
learn
 I have 11.04 on one of my sticks.  If I install stuff on it, and then install it on my HD, will it also install the added software?
anyone know how to get wifi working on 10.10 i keep getting "bad password" im using Wicd Manager
pidh, did you correctly set your corg.conf file?
What wifi chip is it?
chip set = AR9285
What encryption type?
fire up "jockey-gtk" and see if it's offering any resitrcted drivers
wpa
Is there any reason you arent using nm-applet?
dno what that is im new to this
Which version of ubuntu?
10.10
nm-applet is the default network management applet that appears in gnome-panel
yeah that sounds about same as last time
could someone explain to a complete newbie like me whether I should use ubuntu or kubuntu? I don't get the difference really...
just after they eat lunch lol
Thanks!
Use Ubuntu
ohh ya i started with that and it wouldnt even connect to the network so ive googled it and did some whole thing that got me to the "Wicd" but now it says "bad password" each time
use kubuntu
ubuntu has gnome by default and kubuntu has kde by default
Kubuntu is horrifically ugly
how do i add an custom installed (not using apitiude) application to unity sidebar?
at least it doesn't run unity per default
Rehan, personal preference. ubuntu uses the gnome desktop enviroment by default, kubuntu uses KDE.
xubuntu
Rehan, Kubuntu is unbuntu with the more like windows looking KDE desktop. Ubuntu uses gnome
there is no corg.conf in /etc/X11
The official ubuntu distro uses gnome, if that tells you anything..
try both with live cd
vib	when you write - I need to hunt your messages /window list
pidh, I know, you have to create one
yay I think I'm getting Ubuntu to finally install :) !
Yeah...KDE stack is built on better technology......but it's naming conventions are annoying and it's full of BLOAT
If you install Ubuntu on a Usb stick, then it wont have the installer packages - you could add them, but I personally would do a reinstall and perhaps grab the package list off the usb stick and take a copy of everything in /etc
Start Application --> right click and select, that the application always show up
At least till the release of 11.04 later this day, it uses gnome :P
Anyone know the version of python that comes with Ubuntu, or actually...if python does come included?
but how do i get my application to show up in start applications?
should i switch back?? if so how the heck do i do that lol
10.10
2.7
thanks
I guess you would have to undo whatever you did to switch in the first place
You mean at the unity applications menu?
if I didn't create a swap partition when i installed 10.10 (i have two partitions on the laptop drive but one is for win7), does that mean I can't hibernate the system?
np
YES
alternativly try to start the app over a terminal
Rehan, yes.
oh i see. I should still be able to suspend though right?
actually I just checked....11.04 is running 2.7.1
any pointer to a guide how to create it - i am new to linux and have no coding skills.
otherwise you can start the menu ?reorganization? with a command, which I actually don't know --> if you need the app in the unity menu
morning all
\o
Rehan, as i understand it, i believe so. hibernate is going to require a swap partition equal to or possible a bit more than your ram size.
ok cool
that's not necessarily true....it only needs to be as big as resident memory...not total memory
anybody here?
or the average you generally use anyway
trying to figure out why no matter what i try my laptop won't suspend/standby. Well actually it will suspend but when i try to turn it back on it boots up just like a cold boot
a default install allocates 1:1 memory:swap
so unless you used custom partitions it should be enough
or unless you added more memory since
i already had a 10gb partition made for ubuntu and i just installed ubuntu onto that.
clear
oh...well that is not default then
any down sides to encrypting the home directory?
hello all!
guest345345, as your use can fluctuate though i think most tutorials suggest a size equal to your ram to be on the safe side.
need emergecny help!
yeah....that is optimal if you plan to hibernate
when is the new release scheduled to happen?
but not strictly required most of the time
I need help. Using Ubuntu 10.10. I have recovered my files through Windows and have only retrieved a single file Root.disk. Can anyone help?
tutorials are generally aimed at people who prefer not to think much
Dial 911 or whatever the emergency hotline is in your country
beiju
sorry, soreau?
and the easiest way to encapsulate anyone is to just play safe
everyone*
uhm
is making a win7 partition smaller to create space for a new partition (for ubuntu swap) considered a workaround or is it as good as setting up a partition on a clean drive from scratch?
i've tried all i know
jiu
do you really need Win7 for something?
games
does anyone konw how to use the grub rescue?
yeah its way more reliable than ubuntu
might help if you said what the problem was
Rehan, Is it as good as from a clean drive
jiu meiyou huishuo zhongwen de ren zai ?
10GB is more than enough for an average ubuntu install but it may not give it enough room to allocate the recommended swap partition
and that may be your problem
i see, thank you
I need help. Using Ubuntu 10.10. I have recovered my files through Windows and have only retrieved a single file Root.disk. Can anyone help?
when you say "allocate the recommended swap partition" do you mean a third partition? I have a 500 GB drive and made a 490 GB NTFS win7 partition and a 10 GB ext4 ubuntu partition. Can the swap file be put on that same 10gb ext4 partition?
hello
but there is no tuto for how to use this grub rescue, and I don't have any other solution...
so
my problem
what is name of ubuntu release party?
11.04 available for download yet?
channel
yes...swap must be seperate......the installer allocates it automatically
is there a curses alternative to diffusion? it just had my load average up really high... no idea what it was doing
nick-nack, No
haishi jiang zhongwen ba
how long till 11.04 realease?
i have a computer whose CD reader doesn't work
for a defualt full-disk install it will generally be 1:1 with your memory
is there ubuntu release pary?
Is root.disk enough for recovering all my documents from ubuntu 10.10?
floodbot lol?
but if you only give it 10GB disk to work with...maybe it will allocate less
Marco1, It will be released in the next hours. There is no exact release time
Is root.disk enough for recovering all my documents from ubuntu 10.10?
I'm not sure exactly because I usually do custom and allocate swap myself
will it create a new partition automatically? sorry i'm being unclear about it, trying to understand
!party
oh ok
join
yes, any install will allocate swap by default
Is root.disk enough for recovering all my documents from ubuntu 10.10?
the simple/default install will hide it from you but it will do it nonetheless
hello =3
oh ok
Windows and Mac to exactly the same too
do*
oh ok. when i do fdisk -l i see an NTFS partition then an Extended and a third Linux one
anyone know if theres gonna be a release of Ubuntu server 11.04 anytime soon?
Is root.disk enough for recovering all my documents from ubuntu 10.10?
actually...perhaps Windows 7 only uses a "pagefile" by default....but it's recommended to have a seperate parition for Win7 just the same
cfc_{Pawpad}, it will be released today
cool
but Windows sucks of course....so I can understand why they don't follow best practices by default
mythri, can you explain what you exactly did?
cant wait =3
and i just finished installing 10.10 server :) go figure
Thanks
I'm in the same boat :)
upgrading the dist is easy enough
personally i would rather wait a month or so before i instealled 11.04
I'm not to savy on linux :)
Incarus6, I used disk internals and recovered my root.disk from ubuntu through Windows xp
Taking bets on release time.......my money is on 13:15 GMT
let them iron out theones they missed first :)
Incarus6, I used disk internals and recovered my root.disk from ubuntu through Windows xp
Isn't ironing out the thorns what the beta versions are for?
but at least all you have to do is change your apt-sources and do a dist update and you're done
I've been testing it for a while now....to be honest...it feels more stable that 10.10 by now
i just updated my lenny box to squeeze ... was amazingly simple
11.04 will deliver beta software (unity) so better wait for a next release (if you use your machine for something productive)
well. i am sure there is something messed up somewhere ;)
mythri, yes, I allready read that
 Knoppix is a great live CD for fixing problems like that
unity?
beta or not...it's still a huge improvement over gnome panel
What am I able to do with root.disk?
Can I recover files?
Ubuntu bug 648180 in unity (Ubuntu) "Unity sucks" [Undecided,Opinion]
it is still possible to run without unity so there is no real reason not to upgrade.
Incarus6, What am I able to do with root.disk?
i use kubuntu for my desktops ;) if unity has something to do with xorg well.. i honestly only have my ubuntu fileserver
which is awesome ... sure feels good to no longer be using oi
lol, that bug is just an subjective complaint
can't please everyone
elzoog, I don't have such a Knoppix cd right now
some people have an irrational aversion to change
nope the bug comments have a lot of valid points
mythri, I'm not sure about that, I think it recoverd the whole partition
not really....it's all just heckling from the peanut gallery
Incarus6, how can I extract my essential documents from that?
that's unity?
looks like gnome with a giant menu on the left :)
Incarus6, is there anyway I can open root.disk and see the contents?
no.....that's the old netbook edition
is unity still kinda unpolished in its look?
oh
that no longer exists
Macer, looks like gnome3
Do I install natty on my main pc today? Or do I wait a while?
Some people have an irrational aversion to change.  And some people have an irrational fascination with change.  I remember a job interview where I asked them why they wanted to use technology X.  Their answer was the only reason they wanted to use X was because it was new
it's beta software
well.. let me look for a different screen shot
actually the idea was to include unity in gnome3 but gnome developers were against it, canonical was pissed off about it and decided to put it in his distribution anyway
new is bundled with good,new and improved stuff.
that looks just like a mockup from Gnome3
but It doesn't look anything like it now
wow gnome 3 looks nicer than unity
Incarus6, is there anyway I can open root.disk and see the contents?
Whats happening, isnt today
Should desktop or netbook version be used on laptops?
Gnome3 is effing awful
Unity looks and works much better than Gnome 3 shell...
gnome shell is a disgrace too
that can not be real haha
it doesn't look good on the gtk side, hopefully kde and xfce get better
Unity may have a few flaws to iron out...but it's much faster and more usable thatn gnome3 shell
heh. sorry but i still believe kde has them all beat ;) but to each their own
there is no longer a different image for desktop and netbook - hence the name Unity :-)
Whats happening, isnt today 28^th April, or which time zone do canonical guys live in, ubuntu.com still promises Natty downloads from 28^th April, my update manager hasnt noticed any new distro, or am I the one in the wrong timezone?
KDE but with a Unity-like shell would be perfect
but KDE can never get usability right
it's looks like Windows ....but worse
guest345345, I think unity needs open source graphic card drivers
Hi Guys - Anyone know the time when 11.04 finalrelease will be available for  download from the website
as of what version
i don't have a problem with kde ;) i think it's great
windows sucks but you cannot deny they have lots of experience in gui design/usability
as of 11.04
looks the same except they used a darker theme?
Which isn't out yet? I'm on 10.10 :)
who needs fancy gui's, just use awesomewm :D
i was honestly never a big fan of gnome
anyone know of an alternative to diffusion that doesn't take up so much in system resources?
Incarus6, the root.disk I have got is from ubuntu.
i would rather use kde or fluxbox over gnome.. something about it never felt right
not sure...I haven't looked into that......I know the Plymouth boot screen needs open source drivers because of Kernel modesetting
Incarus6, what is that link you gave me last for?
Macer, and the big menu on the left side of the screen
if you are on 10.10 I'd go with the desktop version
Hey guys, please help here. Has natty been released, or what is this talk on gnome3 vs Unity about, Am I behind something?
but there is a non OpenGL version of Unity for people who can't use the 3d one
guest345345, plymouth is working for me. yeah I heard about unity 2D
usual irc chatter, not missing much :-)
it's packaged as unity-2d in the archives
no 3D? :)
is it 1990? heh
written with Qt QML
Macer, E17 / DR17 is great too
 * Macer goes to bust out the voodoo2s
so natty aint released yet, so whats the countdown?
is there a windows app to format drives to ext4?
i haven't used enlightenment in a LONG time.. but it was ok.. i didn't like its dock too much and it took too long to tweak.. plus isn't it gtk ? :)
the 2D version and a Quad-Core computer
something about most gtk things .. they make me feel like i am using motif
coz far as I live, today is 28^th april 2011
windowmaker was sweet too too bad it died
The release team is in the UK, so I recon around lunchtime, early afternoon UTC+1
like no matter how much work they do on it gtk always seems to remind of me windows 3.1
or fvwm in redhat distributions
thats just a guess... nothing official..
thats encouraging.
as far as I know.....you only need OpenGL support....but I could be wrong
Macer, correct. I dont like e16 that much, but E17 is much better ;)
or more specifically open GLES
whats plymouth?
is e17 qt or something?
the boot screen
oh ok
i'm sure glad kde decided to stick with the qt route. they have done a great job of it
yeah i had problems with it because i had to use nvidia drivers instead of nouveau
hey guys, let's make #natty a twitter trending topic!
oh...yeah I had heard something to that affect....
I only buy Intel graphics anyway
intel? really?
So long as they can handle 1080 video I don't care
Natty will revolutionalize Linux, seemingly it will bring some investors into open source market. The worst news is canonical will go fully business and if we're not lucky, the promise of ubuntu always being free might be broken.
I don't game
anything more than an Intel HD integrated is overkill for me
haha.. that is a very fair point
Why burn watts if you don't need to ;) ?
get a new artigo ;) it has hdmi out
Intel HD cards have HDMI out too
guest345345, yeah, I dont buy special cards, Im using the integrated graphic card
i am a huge fan of the little boxes
and they're ultra low power
yeah but the artigo stuff is half the size of an internal optical drive
uses the via pico itx stuff
Sounds cool....but I'm not picky about graphics really
i have an older 1GHz one that i use as my local shell box/dns etc
just low power and plays video is enough
heh
me too... but my fileserver is a beast.. it consumes power and spits it out
with its 10 hard drives and its 2 opteron 285s
The reason I dig Intel is because they have done quite a bit for Open Source....and their own drivers are completely open
Shipit closed down!
i actually want to upgrade the cpus but it is hard finding faster cpus for socket 940 nowadays
sudo apt-get dist-update?
Does someone have graphic card / Xorg related issues, here?
guys can you help me
?
why are proprietary drivers not preferred over open source ones?
yeah...but you need to update the apt cache first
Please don't ask to ask a question, simply ask the question (all on ONE line and in the channel, so that others can read and follow it easily). If anyone knows the answer they will most likely reply. :-)
how can i find the  x11 folder?
does sftp through terminal support resume?
guest345345, yeah sure :D, thanks :)
Its because they're limited to updates by the manufacturer and can't be modified by the community
to upgrade, you meant, update showld translate to `sudo ate-get upgrade
because proprietary means the manufacturers are solely responsible for progress
and they couldn't give a sh*t about many platforms
ohh i see
or improving support on them
Rehan, drivers tells us alot about the hardware, they won't show you how exactly their hardware works
i tried the nouveau ones for my laptops nvidia card and kept having problems with it and then after installing the nvidia ones it worked perfectly
nmvictor, thanks
Intel Graphics are trailing the pack by miles......but their drivers are open....they're by far the best choice for Linux unless you need gaming power
But to be fair....gaming on Linux ain't great anyway
nevermind
thanks Incarus6
rverrips, nevermind, its the beta
Yeah, I don't recommend linux if your primary purpose for using your computer is gaming
Incarus6 is that actually the final release now?
andeeeuk, no, its from 26. April
I don't really game anyway...but if I did...I think it makes more sense to have a dedicated machine
how much power does a fast i7 use maxed out?
92.6W
any way to quickly check from cli which driver i'm actually using (not sure if i uninstalled nouveau, i remember i needed it for plymouth i think)
Incarus6, lol ok
that is a 2.8GHz single core athens cpu for my mboard
No need to beat the shit out of your office machine by playing games on it ;)
92W! wow
andeeeuk, just thought it was the final
Incarus6, yeah its hard waiting sometimes isnt it... lol
Thanks for the heads' up andeeeuk - I think it's still the beta Incarus6 - won't the final drop the name natty?
when is ubuntu 11.04 going to be available to download ? :)
i havei have sis vga on my laptop, and the resolution can't more than 800x600 pixel, so how can i improve my resolution on my ubuntu 10.04?
andeeeuk, come on, I wont to test it -.-
All the inpatient fanatics should be running beta if they love it that much
today
Why aren't you inpatient folks testing beta and helping to improve it? ;)
any way to quickly check from cli which driver I'm actually using (not sure if I uninstalled nouveau, remember needing it for plymouth i think) thanks
guest345345; I agree, but new releases are allways great for me. If it wouldn't be that great for me I would use debian ;)
Incarus6, lol. I just want to upgrade to get back to work.
So guys....
yeah, as nice as the ideology of open source is......at the moment...the proprietary drivers are a lot better
I forgot if someone answered this, but if I put 11.04 on my flash stick, then later install other programs.  Will those other programs get installed if later on I decide to use that stick to install Ubuntu on my hard drive?
i know that :) but maybe a more precise time ? tnx
heey
 I am all for having the choice to use proprietary drivers.
It's possible to do...but I remember it being pretty unreliable last time I tried
that is the most precise time :)
    *
      		
      Facebook
      	
      	
      99
some way to crack WEP i use virtual box  but cant see any wep near by but i have a wirlees connection..
ok tnx :)
Yeah proprietary is fine if that's the way they want it....just important that open source drivers are developed in paralel in case they ever pull support
anyone knows how I avoid that fsck fails during boot if the hwclock is set back in time?
elzoog, you can make an usb stick eprsistent and non-persistent
cmon_
FloodBot2 sets mode -q #ubuntu vibhav!*@* what does that mean?
somone could help me with this_
it means you made floodbot angry
thanks for all the help. I had another question. If I made a liveCD to install 11.04 from, boot it up, format the current 10.10 partition and leave the win7 NTFS one alone, will my current GRUB2 dual boot menu be totally borked
The persistence seems to work ok for documents etc.
Ugh, this wait is killing me
but didn't seem to work that great for packages
when I tried anyway
heeeey
yay, its out
guest345345, it worked great for me the last time i tried it (10.10)
It's not out now.
whats up?
no its not
I just looked at the site.
ftp://ftp.releases.ubuntu.com/releases/11.04
oh cool.....I might try again then
Hey why cant i connect WEP _
?
thats the beta
I'm loading the release right now
 Depends on whether or not your boot partition is seperate from the main 10.10 partition.   If not, then your formatting will overwrite it and your grub2 will be screwed
guest345345, I dont like live usb sticks that much. They seems to be slowlier then live cds.
does anyone know if it is worth upgrading to 11.04, in terms of stability?
it's not worth it
I'm on ftp
I have a script for installing and configuring any new machine I roll out - would be nice to throw the script on the USB and pull packages from the local cache
no
andeeeuk, it is
its actually worse for stability
How would you map out your windows shares?  I mean if you are going to play an MP3 from it with mpg321 ?  Do you use smb://192.../path/file.mp3 ?
stick with a LTS release
 Yeah, but a liveCd doesn't have the option of modifying what's on it usually
elzoog, correct. a persistent usb stick got that option
There's only betas in the ftp.
o, the torrent is not yet authorized
Why cant i find WEP? I use VB should i maybe change to live CD?
hey, when is the release, guys?
11.04 will have a lot of bugs better wait until it is polished with patches for a while
Incarus6 is that actually the final release now?
its only 5:31am, wow
hehe
ftp://ftp.releases.ubuntu.com/releases/11.04/ubuntu-11.04-desktop-i386.iso.torrent
Somone here use BT?
me
dreinull_, its the beta release
at my place it is 11:32 am
no, it's not
or is there some other way to see the windows shares again ? I forgot about ?
look at the date
here its 2:32 AM
so you are saying.....if I pull some packages to the apt cache on my USB stick......I can install from those packages when I install later?
HEEY
:P
 Yes it is
derinull
cuz it's been a while since I tried it.....but it never seemed to work before
look at the timelog 28.04.11 08:35:00
dreinull_, nut sure about that, it was updated today, so it could be the final release
wich one BT4?
I have a 64 bit CPU and use 64 bit Windows 7. Is Ubuntu good enough for me to use 64 bit yet?
I checked earlier today and it said beta and April 14
do I need to update ubuntu 10.04 to 10.10 before I can update to 11.04 :S?
I feel a great disturbance in the Force, as if millions of Ubuntu repositories suddenly cried out in terror, and were suddenly silenced."
yes!
guess so
my num keys don't work anymore, what could be the problem? is my keyboard broken? how can you check that?
 latest beta is april 26 :)
Assuming your hardware isn't too obscure
Whats the ETA on Natty Narwhal release?
here it is!
matto1990 of course it is
Should i change to Ubuntu Is it better than BT4?
you won't tell the difference between 64bit and 32bit unless you have lots of ram and/or run programs with heavy CPU usage
right, and could something go wrong during an update like that ? (I got a bunch of scripts etc. on my comp which I don't want to loose)
will you have a problem with drivers or anything though? I have a year or so old Acer laptop
are you having trouble with BT4?
Except the fact that using 64-bit floating points means his average memory usage will go up quite a bit
guest345345, you can install packages with apt-get on the live usb stick
matto1990 no, with Acer you will have less problems
less? How so?
yeah I know that.....but can you reference those packages for a hard installation later?
mott01990 sry *the least
like the same as using the CD in sources.list?
motto1990 I was looking for the word
I know you could dpkg them....but it's kind of a pain
its getting crowded on bt. > 60.
heey i have a PROBLEM with BT4
guest345345, uff Im not sure about that. dont you have an easier solution for that?
because if you bypass apt...it doesn't log dependencies
ah ok, so it should work really well. What about ATI GPU? good support for that?
gNewSense (support in #gnewsense), Linux Mint (see !mint), LinuxMCE (support in #linuxmce), CrunchBang (support in #crunchbang), BackTrack (support in #backtrack-linux), Ultimate Edition
are you getting the final ?
yes
where from, and how are you sure its not a beta?
What UTC time does natty gets released?
motto1990 ATI, NVIDIA, INTEL, they are all well supported
Cant Crack WEP With BT4...
why would they label the beta without the beta in its name?
read what ubottu told you and respect the rules please
easier, maybe...but not as seemless
perfect. Thanks for the help. May as well go for 64 bit then :)
it should be possible....and it's the most intuitive way to do it
Edubuntu just got it's FINAL torrent dvd out! :)
 ..
but I guess very few people need that ability
oh, connections are now refused
yeah exactly
sudo update-manager should download something if I'm on beta2, right?
and it even says beta 2 at the top of the page
Not for me
oh...scratch that....effing cache
he's right....it's there
check back a few minutes later, I AM downloading the release images right now, with PROPER names
just had a stubborn cache
no its not beta2 anymore
vadviktor, Im upgrading, not downloading images ;)
it is the final release
I told you guys
i already installed 11.04 ;)
lol
it's released?
I still see cached version of the page
Yeah it's out....they should have set the page cache to expire today
bt is kinda slow :)
lol
is it ok to upgrade from the mamanger now?
yeah
sweeet
cleared cache, cant confirm that. Its Beta2
ftp://ftp.releases.ubuntu.com/releases/11.04/ubuntu-11.04-desktop-i386.iso.torrent
happy 11.04 everyonr
how do I upgrade from beta2 to release?
is it out yet?
yeah I did a shift-F5 in Chrome
use the ftp link
has to clear the whole cache
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrasde
not sure why
But the image link is the real deal
Still not released in the update manager
iceroot, that ownly downloads one package, is that correct?
only*
guest345345, Ok, I can confirm that know ;)
ubuntu feels so bloated, i installed efxc over gnome yesterday and dident like it so i did sudo apt-get remove xubuntu-desktop, now i have 2 diffrent terminals! how can i remove the "xubuntu-desktop"s terminal?
no
:(
its doing what you want
beta 2 -> final
iceroot, okay, thanks
that's not bloat...that just you messing up your system
wget gives me 404 for that link. FTP doesn't show the release files either
tracker refusing to accept torrent yet, must wait :P
yeah, I updated :)
it's generally not smart to be running 2 environments when it's still beta
hum, don't looks much different...
can't wait for the new ubuntu :)
but it don't knows my blender release 1.57...
I mean the updater
guest345345 it is pretty messed up yeah lol
if you want to try a different environment just for a while...I suggest using virtualbox
or a live disk
they generally don't play well together
I started an ubuntu install with wubi over win7. it got past download and status said install about two hours ago, now the progress bar is about 60% and hasn't moved in an hour. what should I do?
and Linux doesn't babysit core packages like Windows does....they all just packages
you can fuck them up pretty easily
proq, wubi sint supported in windows 7, sorry
*isnt
you didn't completely remove the desktop
it actually still says it is a beta release from the update manager
damn thing :s
proq, it could be supported yet, I dont know. I had the same problem with wubi. check back if you use the latest wubi release
hrm... that's a lovely thing to find out after a five hour install
this is probs said a billion times now. but how long till were pexecting
jesus...Windows is still taking 5 hours to install?!
expecting**
what a pile of bloat lol
do a parallel installation
Hello
no, wubi hit an error and just stopped
Ubuntu+kickstart script takes less than 30 minutes for a fullt installed and configured machine here
proq, you could cancel it earlier ;)
wubi install of 10.10?
It's tragic that you have to download and install things one by one on a new Windows install
even Mac users have homebrew and macports
Windows is just awful
proq, the wubi installation should take around 5 minutes
proq, after the download
when I selected netbook from wubi, it started grabbing ubuntu 10.04
When ubuntu 11.04 will be available for download?
the toram option for the live cd should be default because it not only frees up the cd drive for use, playing and burning, when people are testing it also it increases the speed and responsiveness of the OS
does the update manager still say that it is the beta release when doing an upgrade?
well, maybe tomorrow I can grab wubi netbook 11.04 and try again
that's ok, how are you connected to the internet?
or just the full version
/join #php
now
no thanks
sorry
wireless connection to a wireless router
Its jabber client
lol
hah busted joining the PHP channel...you must be pretty ashamed now
you are stuck in the updates from internet portion?
;)
Oh Im so excited, WUBAWUBAWU :D nevermind. I heard 11.04 is going to bereleased in 10 minutes
Ah :)
The toram option for the live cd should be default because it not only frees up the cd drive for use, such as playing and burning, when people are testing, and it also it increases the speed and responsiveness of the OS.
it didn't say what stage it was in, just that it was installing
Finally :)
msb__:it is
Any webdevelopers here that only use Ubuntu? how is day to day usage & do you run Photoshop etc in Virtualbox etc?
just not announced yet
playing and burning, when people are testing, and it also it increases the speed and responsiveness of the OS.
daskog, here
Yeah I use Ubuntu for development, testing and deployment
daskog, i run photoshop and dreamweaver in vbox on ubuntu ... works great
it's fine....best platform I've ever used
I do it the other way around, I run Ubuntu in VBox :)
from my experience with wubi, I found that it would always hang on a wifi connection if the connection was not an open connection
#Does anyone know why it still says it is a beta release in the update manager?!?!
daskog, im running kubuntu. when i have to use PS im starting win 7 in virtualbox
To be honest...I find Inkscape better for mock-ups and vectors that Photoshop/Illustrator
yes I will try this 11.04 on vbox
andeeeuk, 11.04 isnt released yet
How is performance for Virtualbox apps like Adobe suite?
don't even need Wine
ok good to know, I'll try with a cable
I am most comfortable with Ubuntu... Have not used windows for quite some time now...
Give Inkscape a try...it's really clean and fast compared to Adobe suite
jatt, yes but not in the repos
daskog, performance is great on my machine... cant really see alot of diff
use win 7 on it
Congratulations!!
when will be the official annoucement?
Marco1, I heard in 7 minutes
if you connect the cable without doing anything else it may go on
ok thanks.
you will probably want to hate it a whole due to the new learning curve.....but it's save as native SVG
I will check back soon :)
Thank you msb link is working for me.
Inskscape looks really good
which has a lot of advatages for web dev
10% downloaded ^_^
even more so soon
10% of ubuntu 11.04?
what you mean?
s/whole/while
yep
Its availaable
any pointers how to install ubuntu in virtualbox? host ubuntu
But, recently i made a big mistake of swithching to KDE!
awesome, I'm going to go to bed and install 11.04 tomorrow with wubi  :D
gl ^_^
it is not a misstake, you just took a wrong turn XD
I don't think wubi works with 11.04, check first
how can i make the computer always connect automatically to a wlan
ribot, connect once and it should auto add to your default connections
set the connection to auto
you can check your wlan0 right clicking the networking-manager-gnome icon
Hello
where is it available?
Is Ubuntu 11.04 release
hey looks like it's out
When will the Natty be released today?
which is best to use google chrome or chromium ?
chromium
nyoger, chromium is modified by the distributors
it should mark the package as installed but not actually install it and set a flag such that the package will not be updated if there's a new version in the tree...
someone should start up a bit here that prints the direct links every time someone says "11.04"
bot*
Is announcement for Natty done?
Incarus6, i'm sure source code is available
chromium is totally open source
im almost download it
it's not released yet
do you read German?
but torrents down
where do i set this
cuz I have no idea what that says lol
FloodBot2 sets mode -q #ubuntu vibhav!*@* what does that mean?
I see that there's a --no-upgrade option, but that does not prevent apt from actually installing the package...
guest345345, I am german, lol
Torrents up
oh :)
How softpedia saying "officially released"
<seniseni> really?
does it say what they modify?
yes
because they're wrong
linxfreaker, its released, but not in the repo yet
thx
no, it's not
Is it announced internally in any mailing list
no, it's not
okie thnx
Guys, i am facing issue logging into ubuntu 11.04 machine
When i am providing login n passwd it throwing me back to the machine
tsimpson, is ISO available?
Is that final ISo
Is it beta or the final?
final iso, it is just not in the repo yet :s
...waiting for it to be in the repo's.
why not just download and do fresh install?
still waiting official announcement...
because then all my other packages will be gone, including settings etc.. etc..
pretty decent dl speed. i thought the server would be hammered
I prefer doing an update
If people can't have a new install looking exactly like their old install within 15 minutes...they're doing something wrong
a lot easier
why cant I send anything to th #ubuntu-release-channel???????
Between Ubuntu One and a config script.....I can have an identical system within about 10 minutes
from a single command
is upgrading my ubuntu 10.10 to 11.04 also removes my virtual box OS?
why cant I send anything to th #ubuntu-release-channel???????
because ChanServ has muted you
probably because you are banned
beucase you were flooding
how do i get unbanned?
by waiting until it expires
please?
and then behaving like a good boy
you got banned for posting links or hashes or something
Expires in how many minutes?
Installing 11.04 on my Alienware m15x. Great setup process!
What i did was a countdown.....
mutes and bans expire after a month...
<guest345345> Expires in how many minutes?
Scott-Mc, 11.04 is #ubuntu+1
oops
<MaRk-I> Ohoo nooooo!
<MaRk-I> Is there another way?
ScottONanski1, 11.04 is in #ubuntu+1
you should do /msg ChanServ I am very sorry sir....I win't do it again
haha
:D
lol
maybe he will go easy on you
!ot
#ubuntu is the Ubuntu support channel, for all Ubuntu-related support questions. Please use #ubuntu-offtopic for other topics (though our !guidelines apply there too). Thanks!
 /msg ChanServ I am very sorry sir....I win't do it aga
that's not true that bans expire after a month
omg he really did
priceless
well tell him he's banned for talking about the release
!guidelines
you were silenced for talking about the release the time is up to the OP in that channel
!g test
is it out yet? out yet? is it there already? mommy, how long does it still take?!ß
<MaRk-I> Am i unbanned now?
no Idea, try
the OP can set a ban timeout however long he wants
He should have warned you first
unless a bot autobanned you for flooding or something
if the topic is not warning enough....
o_O
did you drop the bomb?
well...I would have thought common sence should be enough
Has anyone worked with .htaccess and .htpasswd and which is best? I would like to password a directory.
but.....
sense*
Thanks.
the ftp is requesting passwords
topic says... Do not say it's released or post links to it until the Release Manager says so, or you may be banned without warning.
I think we're a few minutes from official announcement
.htaccess and .htpasswd are entirely different things
I suggest Nginx as a fix to that
#nginx
as a fix to Apache's hideous inefficiency I mean
the link i saw erleier
weeMbps
Anouncement or not iso I am downloading is a good one I hope :)
Thanks Guest345345
is that the official release of server 11.04??
is it out yet
is it out yet
YES!
is it out yet
no
is it out yet
I hate stupid people
!party
 * guest345345 waves at Naib
is there a edubuntu edition of natty ?
So I reinstalled LAMP on the office ubuntu server due to a php issue, but now after using tasksel php5 is not working at all. I don't have libapache2-mod-php5, libapache2-mod-php5filter, php5-cfgi, php5-fpm. any ideas?
hi i have a question
!ask
Please don't ask to ask a question, simply ask the question (all on ONE line and in the channel, so that others can read and follow it easily). If anyone knows the answer they will most likely reply. :-)
how can i backuo my system
backup
i want to do an clean re install
!backup
Hi, how do I know if selinux is enabled on Natty?
does anyone know if the 11.04 power regression will be fixed in a future update, or if it will be pushed out to 11.10?
!apparmor
@mbn_18
have a nub question, reading instructions on google telling me to edit "etc/apt/sources.list"
where is that directory?
kaatta, /etc/apt/sources.list
I'm still a noob but i think it's "vm" to edit it
!sbackup
sbackup is a tool to create complete and/or incremental backups (which can be scheduled to be automatic, and can be done over a network). It is available in !Universe
is natty out yet?
nubs shouldn't be editing that file
yea, thats what i just asked... but telling me /ext/apt/sources.list means absolutely nothing to me
something like - vm /etc/apt/sources.list
robert05ad, you mean vim?
What are you trying to do?
yeah vim sorry
kaatta, that is the file location
im trying to add debian source to my sources to get a LXDE compatible composite manager
kaatta, in the terminal type vi /etc/apt/sources.list
kaatta, whats the problem?
ty ymer for answering something i could understand
kaatta, sudo nano -w /etc/apt/sources.list
didnt'y uo forget the "sudo"?
kaatta,  no problem
isn't 11.04 still out?
and vim is installed by default...not everyone loves vim
ah yes, correct
isnt*
then ctrl O to save and ctrl x to exit
kaatta, ^
kaatta, nano is easier to use than vi
kaatta, if your new i would suggest gedit
what do i need to do to edit that? i may be wrong but ymer, your instructions appear to just show me the contents of the file
/etc/apt/sources.list"
gksudo gedit /etc/apt/sources.list
that's probably the easiest way for a "nub"
people! we need to flood twitter! If we get around 1 tweet per-second for about half an hour we'll be among the trending topics
kaatta, if you have gedit you can try "sudo gedit /etc/apt/sources.list"
gksudo
oh..damn. sry youre right gksudo
harvi i type that and get "command not found"
Ctrl+Alt+T for terminal
gksudo gedit /etc/apt/sources.list
be careful
kaatta, "gksudo gedit /etc/apt/sources.list" should work, sry my bad. you must run it in terminal. press CTRL+ALT+T and type that command there. gedit will open, you edit that file and save changes. than you can close terminal and gedit
harvi, i appear to not have gedit, i am apt-get installing it
shouldn't ubuntu 11.04 be released today?
Hey... I have a question about ubuntu server... I have a dedicated server running ubuntu 10.10... I want to set up a cloud on it so all my computers can be kept in sync... how would I do so?
yes, but still nothing...
it has, they haven't updated the site but the torrents work
karlo, you are genius
HF_acid, fcuk112, it is NOT out yet
i dont get that why does there have to be two "sudo, gksudo" surely there must be a way to have one that can comply with both?
avdija, I am not pretending I am smart, I just asked.. tnx on info all
how backup my system
? how do you figure
because the release manager has not released it yet
people i am having 64 bit ubuntu 10.x version, how can i make sure that this os can run 32 bit applications ? i want to install eclipse and android sdk in my system to work
harvi, the last hint got it, tyvm, exactly what i needed
how backup my system
i want the WEHOLE system backuppen
np
tsimpson, the torrent is dated 28-apr 09:35?
how backup my system
it IS available for download....even if it hasn't been announced
and it IS the final image
no, it's not released yet
i read all
but i cant understand
whatever you have, it may not be not the final release
whatever the file name, date or whatever
how backup my system
why not
hi
#ubuntu-de
hi peto_
when I'll be able to upgrade to ubuntu 11.04 with update manager?
hey tsimpson I just downloaded the final version of natty, thanks for your help dude :)
hello Ymer-
wrong wrong wrong
it's released....end of story
PeterMaffay #ubuntu-de
think what you want
why do you hate ubuntu fans. you are doing this great OS a disservice
tsimpson, dont feed trolls :D
 * dArKd3ViL jumps
Hey guys do you know if unity 2D will be avaible in 11.04 ?
no it ISNT !!!!
at least 11.10 !!!!
how backup my system
so what if my PC can't run 3D Unity?
without 3d support i have heard you just run ubuntu classic.
no there is unity-2d
velcroshooz, yep
What channel is the release party at
kaatta, did u get it to work?
how to send "ctrl + alt + f1" in vinagre?
where will the 11.04 appear when it's finished?
hi, does anyone know why I can't autologin? I have it set to login w/o a password under my username, and under login preferences - there is a checkbox "automatically login as..." but my user isn't in the dropdown and it is grayed out. any ideas?
ubuntu.com
just wait
what do you mean?
it will sign you in after some time, probably 30 seconds
ok
Any news about the release process?
how do i make it not wait? -- btw i'll try that in a bit (to just wait)
!ask
Please don't ask to ask a question, simply ask the question (all on ONE line and in the channel, so that others can read and follow it easily). If anyone knows the answer they will most likely reply. :-)
preferences > allow keyboard shortcuts?
Is Ubuntu 11.04 out?
playing w/ the bot or did you misunderstand something
join #ubuntu-release-party
i dont see that point in vinagre 0.5.1
needed the !ask stuff to copy paste to another channel :)
no! don't joins #ubuntu-release-party
it's a massive time-sink
:-D
0.5.1?
backup
!info vinagre
remote desktop client for the GNOME Desktop. In component main, is optional. Version 2.30.2-1ubuntu1 (maverick), package size 492 kB, installed size 1740 kB
I'm starting to get really pissed off here
I am trying to play minecraft, with the .jar provided by the website.  It keeps up and just closing out on me.
hardy provides 0.5.1
With NO warning.
ah nvm then
as it seems i need a backport
just BAM and it's no longer running
what could be causing this?
libc6 dependency :(
anyone know where I can get ubuntu support for eee pc 1101HA?
i see
wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwawiohtqawoht
tell me exactly the commandline parameters how you launch it?
i will try other vncviewers, thank your for your help
have u tried..... teamviewer?
tsaknorris, that wwwwwww is from it just closing itself agaimn
and does minecraft run on openJDK? or do you need "real" java :D
Ubuntu 11-04 is not officially released yet?
tsaknorris, the same way I've been doing it all week, right click and run with openjdk.
Hello, How do I login as root?
It ran fine for 5 hours tonight
!info remmina
remote desktop client for GNOME desktop environment. In component universe, is optional. Version 0.8.0-1 (maverick), package size 216 kB, installed size 1044 kB
you don't want to
 show me the commandline parameters
This started happening after I had to restart with the thing still running, because all the titlebars disappeared
tsaknorris, i don't start it from command line
ymer im having a bit of an issue w/ the package im after apparently not exsisting
kinda annoying
kaatta, what package?
at what time doth starteth the great avalance of 1104?
you should!!!! "java -Xmx1024M -Xms512M -cp Minecraft.jar net.minecraft.LauncherFrame" <--- make launcher of that
and USE SUN JAVA :D
dont use openJDK
tsaknorris, it's been running fine on open all week
why is it starting this crap NOW?
Guest45212, started
ciaro-compmgr
did restarting without closing it out do something?
well do what i say and it will run all year ^^.
i have been trying to get a composite manager for lubuntu for about a week
ubuntu is already on the ftp site
Hello, What time will be the release of Ubuntu 11.04 on update managers?
what's the official release time?
NO_PUBKEY CBF6E0B8483170E9
okay, hand on here
exactly what I was about to ask
first install SUN JAVA and then make launcher out of that commandline parameters
natty will be released when it's ready, same as every other release before it
it's not released yet, don't post links
it is
it was add today on 9 a.m.
kaatta, seems like the package it available, you prolly have to find it and download it somewhere else... (not awesome at this, but doing my best to help :) )
still waiting official release announcement
!sunjava
y does it have to be so bloody hard to get a composite manager on lxde?!?!?!?
BananaLemon, I assume it will be later today .
it's not released until it's announced as officially released.  End of discussion please
it's not, the official release will use "11.04" not "natty"
where to get ubuntu natty for netbook?
 I already downloaded the .iso file. Just need to know when the mirrors will be ready too.
there is no netbook release anymore
its not official ??
netbook project has been depreceated
okay, the ISO is from yesterday, is that the final release version then?
where to get ubuntu 11.04 for my mobile phone?
omfg im about to scream... im so close to just giving up on this
canonical is clearly not very good at dates
natty/                  28-Apr-2011 09:26    -   Ubuntu 11.04 (Natty Narwhal)
kaatta, lxde uses openbox as a window manager. which doesnt have composite. most composite managers are their own window managers, and you only run one at a time.
its from today. I think it is final. /leaked mirror/
hey all! I'm needing to transfer files from a 9.04 installation (ext3) to 10.10 (ext4) but the systems is telling me that my 9.04 system does not support ext4 - what can I do to make this happen?
the phone versions are not official. Search for some ports if you will
 its from today. I think it is final. /leaked mirror/
it will be released today at 18:00 GMT, as usually
i'm online?
!partner
some answer....
really? there is a phone version? i was just being silly
11.04 is NOT released yet, join #ubuntu-release-party to wait
am i online
velcroshooz i am not a linux buff, but after installing a dock and conky, which i desperately want to be running on this machine... im told i need something called a 'composite manager' so that there are not large black boxes around the apts
there are some phone ports for ubuntu, e.g. for HTC HD2
but they're not official
hey all im trying to get support for ubuntu server can anyone point me to the right place?
someone please answer me
it should be released right now GMT+10!
there will never be a netbook version of 11.04
several czech mirrors beg to differ ;)
what's up?
you're online
please discuss natty release in #ubuntu-release-party and let people looking for help with ubuntu get help with ubuntu here
i just test
kaatta, you are going to need something like compiz then, there are no standalone composite managers that are still supported afaik. using compiz means you switch from openbox (lxde's standard window manager) to it.
it's not a bad site
when is 11.04 releasing ?
today at 18:00 GMT as usually
there is 11.04 so why is not good ??
ohk :P
when it's ready.  Join #ubuntu-releasy-party
ubuntu will not support netbook anymore? what should I use in my eeepc?
velcroshooz, i thought that there was something preventing compiz from working in lxde? or can you help me get it going?
jrib,  there is a 11.04 relased so why is bad ?
because that's not the final version until it's announced as such.
I can upgrade with all my setting right ?
yes
the regular version
jrib,  but it add today on 9 a.m. so its official ?
Do i need to add any source or something?
no.
the unity desktop is now default
kaatta, i dont run lxde myself i cannot say. but standard ubuntu comes with compiz included.
once it's released, update-manager will ask you if you want to upgrade
there is only desktop and server edition in the future
ohk thanks :)
jrib,  what will be changed ? if it was add today ?
maybe nothing, maybe something.
has anyone succesfully migrated from virtualbox to HDD? using dd? ubuntu 10.10 btw
velcroshooz, unfortunately ubuntu wont run on this machine, but lubuntu runs very very smoothly
jrib,  ok i undestand, i download on pendrive and test, after download official and install
kaatta, a composite manager is going to be more cpu and graphics intensive, so that may not be the best option for you then
i dont get why mirrors grabbed it
I see. You mean netbook can use desktop version because the unity is suitable for netbook?
11.04 coming out today?
it is out already
sure.
Hello why is my download speed so slow? 3.5MB/Sec
wtf, try read my line again
people realy 11.04 is like netbook editon, and desktop is over with 10.10 ??
poor thing. try BT
woah who!  Break out the hookers and blow!
every is spamming the servers
*everyone
it's not out until it's announced as out, please stop saying otherwise
i didnt say it was out ffs
velcroshooz, i think i can handle it. gnome runs decently on this machine till i try to do too much at once, i think running compiz from lubuntu will work out fine
topic says... Do not say it's released or post links to it until the Release Manager says so, or you may be banned without warning.
hello. how can I mount an external hardrive CONSISTENTLY to the same folder ? ... after hibernation it mounts to a new folder with "_" postfix.
who cares. They will announce just this url
just noticed that it had been pushed to the mirrors tsimpson
this is not up for discussion.  In any case, the contents of that url may change.
join #ubuntu-ops if you want to discuss the ban
did you put a record to /etc/fstab ?
What do I have to do to transfer files from an ext3 files system to an ext4 file system - my 9.04 installation tells me that it does not support ext4
main website has changed to reflect 11.04
no need im not banned
lo0m, yes ... "/dev/sdb1	/media/fifth-element	                  ext3	  user_xattr	  0"
upgrade your ubuntu version, 9.04 isn't supported anymore
October 23, 2010. See !eol and !upgrade for more details.
Hi... hmm, trying to fix my settings for my xorg.conf, tell me... if I use modeline ... do I remove all other monitor info? Or just paste it above? The problem is my refresh rate is low and its killing my eyes.. Ubuntu doesnt pick up my refresh rate but I know this monitor can do 80hz ?
Where's my Natty?
11.04 is offcial out :)
YEah I've installed Meerket but need to move files to that install from 9.04
kaatta, compiz is what gnome is running as a window manager by default when desktop effects are set to on, as i said i dont run lubuntu so i cant say how to add compiz to it.
Is it possible to delete my "root" account and make myself the superuser?
try using UUID instead
it's out!
where? The website still 10.10
still has*
in fstab of course
download time
nope, just make a reload. Proxy?
galumph, it says 11.04
anyone know what time 11.04 will be rdy?
? no it's updated, perhaps your cache is off, shift f5
it is out. even officially
BananaLemon, no :)
no, you need to have a root account.  But by default, you won't be able to login to the root account.  Your first user will be able to sudo (and anyone else in the admin group).  What exactly do you want to do?
lo0m, ah, in fstab ? this is the unique harddrive ID ? Maybe there is a page on help.ubuntu.com ...
Whoa, when did that happen
i dont see why you guys are complaining?
A second ago it was 10.10
released!
BananaLemon, but you can add yourself to admin group... to gain rights
Downloading and Testing^^
ubuntu.com is still not really up to date
Noone know how to modify xorg then?  please really need help getting my refresh rate working, this is killing my eyes
:O
I'm trying to move a ton of mp3, ogg, flac, etc files to my new Meerkat install (ext4) but 9.03 (ext3) won't let me
and installed.
when windows 8 will be realese ?
did you see what I told you?
yes, try google it.. i have UUID=#hash insted of /dev/sda2 ..works like a charm
already installed?
yes
Does anyone know of a way to get information about the current system without being sudo?
restarting now
woah... is it just me... or is the Website now spastic? lol
Hurr, 9 kb/s
lo0m, k, thanks, I'll try that
use bt
what info are you after?
Hi, 11.04 is out on the website, any idea how long it will take before do-release-upgrade picks it up?
anyone making a torrent?
HDD Serial, MOBO id
should work now
 /join #ubuntu-release-party
something to identify a machine with
 /join #ubuntu-release-party
lshw  work?
do I need the alternate image to upgrade my installation from CD?
join #ubuntu-release-party
bannde from there :P
there is a torrent out
yes, I believe so
where?
yes but I'm planning on wiping that drive for Natty, right now I just want to back up the files on the Meerkat install - I have never upgraded since Warty, always a clean install -
narf_, try to google your make of monitor + xorg
ftp://ftp.releases.ubuntu.com/releases/11.04/ubuntu-11.04-desktop-i386.iso.torrent
whois _bugz_
ty
are you saying there is no way to back up to ext4 file system
!countdown
thanks, it complained I should be sudo, but it showed the info :)
narf_, you will almost certainly find a config example
hi guys, anyone know if macbook eyesight builtin cams when they dont work if it is coz of kernel, friend just updated to lucid 2.6.32-31
yeah, sudo just gives you more info (though I'm not sure what exactly)
Fudge, you need isight firmware for it to work
velcroshooz  thanks
Hello people.
I have a question.
Barnabas, I have a Sahara monitor, lol.. Can't find it.. However I have the modeline info... but just not sure how to define it in xorg.conf if I remove all other monitor arguments it wont work, if I put it on the first line it still doesn't work... if I specify 1024X760_80 it defeaults back to 50hz refresh rate
use a live cd, that's probably the easiest way for you.  You could even do it with your desktop install cd
i want backuo my very new installed system
are you talking about an upgrade?
Barnabas, just not sure how to decode the modeline to horizotal and vertical
no
is it possible with remastersys ?
velcroshooz  eh says the firmware tools for eyesight are installed, is that right?
you can access and copy your data when you boot from the desktop cd (it's a live cd so you run the OS right from the cd)
nabbies, interested?
i want backuo my very new installed system
Fudge, the install does not come with them by default, so someone would have had to explicilty install them for the firmware to be there
ok... I was thinking maybe something like tune2fs (or whatever it;s called might help out... no?
Hi all.
i already tried
OK ... I was thinking maybe something like tune2fs might help... no?
i want backuop my whole system
are there russians?
velcroshooz  yeah he did install them bu tinstalled new kernel few days ago and just noticed cheese isnt working with cam
well if you're saying 9.04 can't access ext4 (which is weird because you should just be able to mount it as ext2), then the easiest thing for you to do is just use the desktop cd
its 10.04
read the link ubottu sent you
Пожалуйста посетите #ubuntu-ru для получения помощи на русском языке  / Pozhalujsta posetite /join #ubuntu-ru dlya polucheniya pomoshi na russkom yazyke
Barnabas, tx
Fudge, hm i cannot say then, i am running 10.10 and am not having issues.
velcroshooz  thanx for head sup anyway mate
what's the release time of natty? is there anyone who knows
11.04 just dropped
when it's ready, as usual
it's released
at 7am here
it's about to get released ....
thanks, I'll give it a shot... unless... if I boot to the new Meerkat, might I be able to move those files from the 9.04, rather than the other way ;round (which didn't work)
Join #ubuntu-releasy-party to announce the release of natty.  Let's try to keep this channel usable for people looking for support
lol! lmao
MaRk-I, it has been
i just like refreshed my page 5 minutes ago
and now it's there
ubuntu 11.04 do not have netbook v ?
nope not officially
yes, if you already have meerkat installed on a separate partition, that would work too.
meerkat reads/writes ext2/3/4 fine. just mount your jaunty-fs and copy
sweb, its all the same now
anyone knows if there is any plugin/mod for outlook support of OpenPGP?
who do I tell about problems with the ubuntu.com website? "How can it be free?" on the new home page 404s
read the release notes.
Cool! that would definitely be the easiest then... thanks!!
!sunjava
this is the official download-wizard, mind oyu
!multiverse
how to report a bug about my screen in lucid going blank
Hi everyone, I updated from Lucid to Meerkat, and I keep having the main panel icons swap around every-time I power on the PC, all items on that panel are locked, which should stop them moving, but somehow they move around the panel and not in the positions I put them
is not but ok, if you say so
MaRk-I, take a closer look
How can i make sure that my android phone and ubuntu both are using the USB 2.0 ?
When i follow the instructions for upgrading from Ubuntu 10.10 to 11.04 im told theres no new releases found :?
rofl, ubuntu website looks kinda fucked right now..
shadowlemon, Ctrl+F5 a few times, it'll realign
What's the support like in Ubuntu for cheap inkjet printers?  There are some cheap printers available and I'm thinking of getting one for Ubuntu
 jaredquinn, so ubuntu netbook and desktop are same
?
that's what i've been doing actually for the last 2 min ;)
yes, they are the same
One more thing... I've read over the years that upgrades from one release to the next Ubuntu release has caused problems - is this an ongoing thing?
hmm, weird
for 11.04 yes.
ahh ok thanks phoque_uni
it was fine after maybe two tries
thegoodcushion, most hp's are very well supported, i would not go with an offbrand.
might happen , depends..
STOP CHANGING YOUR NAME ffs
It comes with both Gnome (Classic) and Unity.  You can select from login
it's fucking annoying, kick those noobs
thank you guys . happy new UBUNTU <3
well the deskjet 3050 is $48 at Officeworks
Please watch your language and topic to help keep this channel family-friendly, polite, and professional.
you reckon the HP 3050 will be supported?
should be fine.  Upgrades have always worked well for me.  But you should have backups just in case
I want to print source code with colour coding from gedit
 * jaredquinn has got a little crush on Unity at the moment.
mmmm Unity
hi!
mine works automatically when I plug it in (some cheap canon s300 (I think)).  Just check those lists and others' experiences before buying
always makes me a bit too nervous to attempt - I'll have to get another 2TB drive and make an exact copy before trying it... just to be safe
thegoodcushion, i am unsure of that specific model, your best bet is to google the model name and number, along with linux + ubuntu, see what kind of reviews or issues people are having.
Why i cant do upgade? Says no new release found :P
because it's not out yet, be patient in #ubuntu-releasy-part :)
#ubuntu-release-party
because it's not out yet, be patient in #ubuntu-releasy-party :)
Can someone post a torrent link for 11.04 32 bit download? The link on the Ubuntu site is not working
NetM, it takes time to distribute the new release among mirrors
oh! thank you jrib and ashmew2
because it's not out yet, be patient in #ubuntu-releasy-party :)
np :)
could someone tell me when the new release will ready?
Jrib, ok, thank you for letting me know
you must be keeping that statement on ur clipboard lol :P
when it's ready, await the announcement in #ubuntu-release-party :)
any advice on what the upgrade might depend on... personal experience, or hearsay?
yes
ok is on official page 11.04 !!
is 11.04 available in the update manager yet?
jaredquinn, desktop and netbook not smae
same*
i thought they were merging netbook and desktop releases together with 11.04! why is there still a distro for each?
they have.
lots of unofficial repositories will decrease your likelihood of a smooth experience
save and close and then sudo apt-get update
the download options say otherwise
zvacet, done, and doing command, thanies
Wich time does upgrade appear in update manager?
thankies
ahh.. obvious but I hadn't thought of that
 jaredquinn, which one that for my netbook ?
yw
well tbh ive never upgraded myself..but im guna do that this time from 10.10 to 11.04.....sometimes breakage occurs if you have outdated hardware i think...and maybe because the things that you had like a library 2.1 , in the new repo, it may be a library 3.0...its worth the try imo..you can always do a fresh install after that
sorry long msg
yeah, really it will only matter if you use repositories that affect core packages.   Otherwise, everything should be okay (check release notes of course)
is it released?
vibhav,  not yet
because it's not out yet, be patient in #ubuntu-releasy-party :)
hi
!isitout
Not yet! But you can join #ubuntu-release-party and await release with the other excited folks :D
good advice thanks to both of you.
happy release day!
how can i set unity as my default desktop?
:)
Are you a masochist perhaps?
choosing "Ubuntu" from gdm combobox doesn't work
DJKorbit, unity is the default in 11.04
if you select it at the login screen, your choice should be remembered
error 0" error, md5 hashes matches and i use unetbootin to create the disk
zvacet, which sun-java-* should I install?  sun-javadb-common, sun-javadb-javadoc, sun-javadb-client, sun-javadb-core, sun-java-demo, or sun-javadb-doc?
velcroshooz, only if you have 3d acceleration, which i didn't because nvidia drivers were not working
DJKorbit, ah yes, that is true
i have 3 options, Ubuntu, Ubuntu Classic and Ubuntu Classic (no effects)
as 11.04 is available on the main site, when would it be available in the update manager?
it is out !
im setting up key based ssh login
what permissions should i use on the dir 'authorised_keys'
it's not out yet (probably soon), be patient in #ubuntu-releasy-party :)
i was using the "no effects" option because nvidia drivers were not working, the package was broken in the repository
?
nice question
usalabs update is more dificult than install fresh
it's not out yet (probably soon), be patient in #ubuntu-releasy-party :)
I don't know witch one you want in partner repo is sun-java6-jre
i was able to install nvidia-173 package today and got 3d working but if i choose the default desktop, it goes to the classic, and not unity
ok, thanks, I'll wait
how can i set unity as default by hand?
how do i make sure Ubuntu is using USB 2.0 ?
according to that tinyurl in the trigger, sun is not available for 10.10
^Phantom2^:I think that you have openjdk by default
it is.  In the !partner repositories
jrib, I bet you wish you had a dollor for everytime you have to say that today! LOL
Yes, I have openjdk
Dollar
:)
Unity should be default on 11.04... and you select it from the sessions list at login if it isn't
I'm being told I need sun to continue running minecraft
then enable the !partner repositories and install sun java
!partner
jaredquinn, doesn't work, there must be a way to defined it somewhere in a file
I dont get sound on my onboard sound driver
then install sun-java6-jre from synaptic
that sounds like the drivers weren't working properly and therefore it fell back to default.
hello i need help. i deleted /home/user/.bashrc* and /root/.bashrc*
is it wrong ??
it's not wrong.  But if you want to restore it, you can find a copy in /etc/skel/
jaredquinn, but they are working properly because i can run unity from the terminal and it works perfectly
Am using P67A-UD3R motherbaord and the on board sound driver is not working on ubuntu 10.10
thanks
thanks, I'm looking through the online stuff and it seems hit and miss
paste the Audio Multimedia line from the output of lspci
How to do that
Applications (top left corner) > Accessories > Terminal
if you want mine and are in the boston area, I was about to toss it in the dumpster (it works fine, just don't use it anymore)
I keep getting zero results for java6
enter the command in the terminal
jaredquinn, maybe there is a key in gconf that defines the default desktop, do you have any idea?
No I'm not near there
Good evening. I feel stupid, but how do I update my version of Ubuntu?
ok :)
ubuntu+1 is invite only?
definitely not a key in gconf.. how could it be?  gconf is a gnome concept
seriously, it's your Xsession
Cool. Thanks! have a great night
says the same to me
how interesting
keep in mind that 11.04 is not released yet, so you'll have to wait a bit
terminal and synaptic both couldn't find it
but the link on that page you linked me is getting it installed
thankies :D
so you can launch Unity from the terminal and it works, but what about everything else that supports it in the session, like compiz failing \(which is the likely culprit if your vid drivers are not quite right)
Oh.  I think I am off by a day or two.  Thanks for the link though. I'll go study
is everything ok now
jaredquinn, i've found the problem, i had "exec metacity --replace" in my .xinitrc because unity was not working
jaredquinn, i'll just delete my .xinitrc
told you..  it was your session :)
zvacet, appears so
once maverick is released update-manager just pops up and asks you if you want to upgrade :)
zvacet, i'll come back if minecraft keeps closing itself under sunjava
good  8-)
jaredquinn, thanks ;) (let me try it)
hhello. why is 32 bit 11.04 ubuntu recommended? does the 64 bit version have more bugs?
is natty as buggy as was predicted?
why am I banned again!!!!
my friend has a prob with his soundcard
:3
.Hello friends ...upto now i survived with free live cd from ubuntu .now they had stopped free delivery . i am out of internet . can any one help me how can i get live cd's . i am very eager to try 11.04 .
^Phantom2^:ok
why am I banned again!!!!
:P
I did not spam now....Un ban me
vibhav, because you were sending people DCCs
it should be all over the coverdisks of computer magazines in news agents within a few weeks
dear #ubuntu
Does anyone here wish to make a recommendation about a cheap inkjet printer that has at least 3 colours plus black that works well with Ubuntu?
cause you keep being special.
 because you are annoying
the adsl is very slow in my grandma's basement
what is DCC
go HP
Why isn't ubuntu 11.04 in the repo's yet?
what should i do?
it usually closes itself after about 5 minutes
yeah any cheap HP or Brother will do the job..
what does it mean to you? :P I have selected the default playback ... works on both the card and USB device
<buzzkill> why was i annoying??
you are annoying
so time will tell, zvacet
You'll probably find that most linux magazines will have cover cd's with 11.04 on fairly soon
move to your Mom's basement.
 to india also ?
I suggest you be quiet while you're here or go to #ubuntu-ops and ask
she is still on dialup
i have canon mp210  printer and works great with my unbutu
paranox Elaborate and justify.
Well Officeworks is selling a couple of cheap HPs but I can't find them on the hardware lists
^^^
which ones?
elaborate and justify what?
HP Deskjet 3050 jaredquinn
it's not out yet, be patient in #ubuntu-releasy-party :)
paranox how am I annoying you ?
im confused about ssh with key... i generated a public and private key, google says put the publc key in /root/.ssh/authorized_keys... BUT, where do i put the private key?
I literally just joined.
and deskjet 2000
and then demended he justified his Q.
^Phantom2^:you are right
i forget
on the client
zvacet, did it again
what did you say before i said whatever i said?
Nothing
i can't keep up with all these fat nerds
let me investigate
my brother printer always steals the first two centimeters of the page, there's nothing i can do :D
please be respectful of others in this channel
jaredquinn, didn't work, i've also deleted .dmrc and didn't work
crikey, what a noise. No wonder Ubuntu is considered the fanboi distro.
IS it released GUYS?
jaredquinn, what do you have in your .dmrc? i have "session=gnome"
zvacet, I'll try wiping and re-installing minecraft
it is release day, of course there is traffic
#ubuntu-release-party
Invalid credentials (49)
oh yeah i get it now
 i have a old ubuntu dvd  , which have several pakg's i wanna install all those pkg's into my pc . how can i do that .
i meant buzzkill
you are annoying
Cool.
I am banned there
jrib :IDK why
that's what i said to you? "you are annoying"?
#ubuntu-ops
^Phantom2^:are you sure you are using sun-java6-jre in terminal  sudo update-alternatives --config java
you are annoying
anyone can help?
what do I do there?
Yeah, I told it to launch with sun
I don't have a few locale settings and no session value
hi
you can sort out why you are banned
<stREaKer> Yes?
can I trust Computer Janitor?
ok cool
you are annoying
Am using P67A-UD3R motherbaord and the on board sound driver is not working on ubuntu 10.10
will remove all UNNECESSARY packages?
Yeah, I told it to launch with sun @ zvacet*
sorry that was.. I have a few locale type things and nothing session related.
jaredquinn, i'll try deleting the session=gnome then
sorry then I can not think of any thing else
are you looking something up?
how do i upgrade from beta 2 ?
any idea ?
better use debfoster and deborphan directly, Computer Janitor is junk
that would just be used by login to pick the default one. you should still be able to select it at login
hello
zvacet, me either
i was having a bit of a look
<stREaKer> lemme see
it looks like it supports wifi?
I'm trying a fresh install of it
how can i do that, jatt? and what about the "apt-get autoremove" command?
hi ubuntu 11.04 is out
with updates
you are annoying
yes
so network printing using something like hpjetdirect i guess
you are annoying
which is pretty standard.
you are annoying
Need some help with ICE and status 256 errors messages
you are annoying
stop that, paranox
there are reports of people getting it working on 10.10 if you just google "Ubuntu HP 3050"
In my update-manager, the check fails because some of the PPAs I added don't have natty versions yet (I'm on beta2). Will this affect me being able to upgrade to release?
well that's all very well for Windows but what about Ubuntu?
I"m trying to update from beta 2 with update manager but says no updates
yeah that's good but deborphan will probably find more unused packages for you
I believe you do
how to upgeade kernel from 2.6.35-22 to latest 2.6.38?
?
 apt-get autoremove will clear the useless pkg's in u r PC
<tuhin> use update-manager
yeah?
as i said. it's pretty standard.. i've been printing with hpjetdirect from UNIX boxes for 15 years.
it is out but there is no link to downloading it perhaps in 1 or 2hrs it should be start downloading
and you smell like week old pickles
stop telling people they are annoying.  THAT is annoying
servers need time to propagate the new iso's, an official release worldwide is going to take some time.
why would you say that to me?
in source list disable these ppa by putting # in front of their lines
you are a gay cunt
 * jiltdil good news it is downloading now
someone is raping the ubuntu repo servers... oh wait
bye*
zvacet, hm ok thx
Doesn't the update-manager do that for you?
hhello. why is 32 bit 11.04 ubuntu recommended? does the 64 bit version have more bugs?
notepad++ in linux?
32bit has always been more widely tested
burg, is more stable the 32 bit one
 get wine  man
why is the 32bit version recomended i currently use a 32bit on a 64bit machine and was hoping to switch to 64bit but the recommended there makes me wonder if i'll then have trouble with lib32 and stuff in order to run 32bit apps any ideas?
no one here on sandy bridge?
spread the word, it's finally out!...lol
do you get op status all of a sudden or are you already an OP and stay undercover :P
raju, no wine, want native
zvacet, so far so good (fresh install)
maybe I'm not sure but a way I told it iss for sure
ooo release says it is out
use 64bit if you want to, there's no real reason to use 32bit if your computer can use 64bit
burg, most software is still written for 32 bit. some proprietary apps are not going to run on 64 bit without a chroot or multilib setup. It just means 32 bit is better supported at the moment.
who made the popup window with the new-version-announcement that steals the keyboard focus?
txoman gedit will do everything
burg:just use 64bit
Hey, I am having trouble with defective packages
Ubuntu is a clusterfuck.  I'm out of here.
oh dangit!
raju, no, it hasn't got nftp ^^
zvacet, force closed again
64bit works fine
64bit is good for servers
you have to be more specific
how can I repair defective packages?
but for the desktop is an overkill
hello everyone i m new to ubuntu..i need to backup..wat does ROOT folder mean..wil it have my documents in it
 * jrib embraces for impact
 i cant find that ...please retype man
can you provide full context?
11.04 IS OUT!
old news
when i put "deborphan" in terminal, i get a list of packages, this tool just finds the orphaned packages for me?
So far I am only getting messages that I have to repair them
mythri, the user you login with is going to have your settings
jrib, what about whay velcroshooz said?
not really which ones... and apt-get -f install doesn't work either
messages where?
^Phantom^:I'M not a gamer so all I can help you with is to install java package sorry maybe someone else know better
try
this will remove them.
ask him to name the software and see if it affects you :)  (there isn't much)
jrib, synaptic and apt-get
with sudo of course
and what's the exact message you receive from apt-get?
obengdako, by proprietary i mean games and the like, most apps are going to run fine in 64 bit. very few are going to be 32 bit specific these days.
there's not much use for deborphan nowadays.  That functionality is built into apt-get now
jrib, i have to reinstall the ubuntu ......before that i was tryin to recover my ubuntu documents and files from windows xp partition..my ubuntu doesnt work now
that's okay, zvacet, I think I might poke around their forums and see if they know anything
raju, it is a plugin in which you have a local cache copy of the server files you open, and while edditing them, changes are stored in cache
 had u poke the google about this
and when you save they are uploaded
somebody please send me download link of ubuntu 11.04
still deborphan finds unused packages which apt-get doesn't
hi all. I can use ping from cmd-line fine but I cannot ping any server using the ubuntu built in Network Tools Ping. It always receives 0 packages. I changed the interface under "Devices" to wlan0 but still, no result
ask him to name the actual software and see if it affects you (there isn't much)
join #ubuntu-release-party
jrib, when  i did that i only got a back of ROOT.DISK
aborting due to problems in pkgProblemResolver::Resolve
"New Ubuntu release '11.04' is available!
they were all given the Abort choice, jrib
thien:just go to ubuntu home page
velcroshooz, so won't installing lib32 and stuff solve those issues because i don't want to have to switch back and forth and can you name some?
raju, yes, but didnt find nothing reliable
code.google.com/p/gedit-ftp-browser/ - Similar
you're trying to upgrade?
Hi alll!
zvacet, i'm gonna try playing offline
jrib, not really
jrib, thanks that is a good question do you use 64bit yourself
I've used 64bit for years, yes
obengdako, lib32 stuff in a 64 bit system is multilib, which should work fine.
the ISOs uploaded a couple of hours ago, are they "it"?
i haven't tried that way yet, to see if it happens there
anyone using ubuntu on virtual machine?
I don't follow what you are saying
jrib, i may still have to download 32bit because i run installations for friends who come with varied machines
prefix your command with "LANG=C" and pastebin
yes
i cant speak
is it better to run 32 or 64 bit if my hardware supports 64?
in ubuntu+1
hmm, not sure what "run installations for friends" means
jrib, is there a way to change to 64bit on a 32bit machine maybe a kernel change?
32bit is allways better
how much ram do you have?
jrib, my ubuntu works no more and tried doing back of ubuntu files from diskinternals software i got a file called ROOT.DISK will it have all my documents and files in it?
jrib:4gb
no, you'd have to reinstall
jrib, hm it's about python packages... wait a moment
use 64bit
thanks! ... because the homepage of the website has been changed only now
obengdako, that would require a reinstall
jrib:ok
use 64-bit
i wouldn't say "always" better but there's circumstances where its better
ah, I do not know
i mean people get their cds from me jrib
you mean CDs with packages?
jiltdil, 32bit got a better hardware support, things like flash won't work with 64bit properly
sorry I was not much of help all the best with game
my ubuntu works no more and tried doing back of ubuntu files from diskinternals software i got a file called ROOT.DISK will it have all my documents and files in it? i want to do a reinstall of ubuntu..does anyone knows it? please help me i m new to ubuntu
zvacet, so far no crash yet, playing locally
flash works fine on 64bit
its been a long time since flash didnj't work properly w/ 64bit... it works fine now
velcroshooz, jrib then hmmmm i guess this year i'll be selfish and download for just my machine any 32bit guy can't use my cd now
Ubuntu bug 709945 in gnome-nettool (Ubuntu) "Ping does not work in network Tools" [Undecided,New]
64bit hasn't had those problems in a long time
so
is flash really supposed to work fine on ubuntu?
someone told me 64 bit was 100% as good as 32 bit. Is that not true?
unity was slow
Incarus6:ok thanks any way to make it better "flash' to work fine in 64bit
I'm always getting like 100% cpu usage from literally  nothing
« apt-cache policy python »  Where did this strange python version come from?
anyone else find unity kinda slowish?
really?
it's true
yea
eltigre, yes flash player works fine
KM0201, I can see still today a lot of 64bit related issues, were is no reason to change to 64bit (except the unix-time-problem)
jrib, I have no idea
I reckon I'll just ask periodically here to see what people are experiencing.  I can't seem to find up to date info online
noticeably slower
something wrong there then.. it's designed to be fast and lightweight, which is my experience so far.
what does that command return?
not according to jus about every google I have done. Wishful thinking.
hmm
Hi all, how can I tell if this ubuntu ISO I downloaded is 32 or 64 bit?
for me it was... but i'm running 11.04 on an ancient machine.. i just switched to xfce.. i knew that change would come about eventually
very slow
well it's not like really lagging or anything
what is the iso name deXter
flash works as fine for me as it does on 32bit or on windows.  I don't know...
eltrige, the latest flash version uses the experimental hardware acceleration, that could causes trouble
well it is something
so what was slow?
i386 = 32bit
lubuntu-10.10.iso
there's no way you can make such a general statement ilke that, and it even be remotely accurate.
[deXter], run "file" against any binary on it
surely you realize that
hey... I just got up and had 47 updates, one of them being "libkmediaplayer4", and my updating process stopped with "preparing libkmediaplayer4". it's been like that for about 10 minutes. what do I do?
works for you. ok. Well the facts are that it doesnt for many others. And to say otherwise is misleading and dishonest.
hello
it was sort of..hmm.. i kinda have to log back into it and check again
 * KM0201 is just glad VLC is finally fixed
None of this is of any help ... the lubuntu CD doesn't have an md5 listed on that page
I don't believe that's the fact.  Flash can be installed and works as fine as flash generally works (hogs cpu, etc)
nonsense
and the file command won't tell if the ISO contains a 64 or 32bit binary..
I installed openldap (or at least I think I did) using apt-get but there is no slapd.conf file in the /etc/ldap directory is this normal?
[deXter], try what I said
i installed gnome 3. it's a bit faster
i've had other issues with it.. but speed hasn't been one of them.   It hasn't been terribly stable through the Natty testing phase.
which part is nonsense?
jrib:is there a flash issue in 64bit?
wow..  that's kind of unexpected.. seeing gnome's been slow forever.
I did, it just says that it's a bootable ISO.
about everything you have said. It does not work fine for everyone. And a prooerly configured flash should NOT hog the cpu.
no more than in 32bit :-)
you have to figure out where that unofficial version of python came from and downgrade back to the official ubuntu version
[deXter], mount the iso, and run "file" against any binary WITHIN it
  :-)
jrib, I have a few ppas...
:-)
how can i make a bootable usb the best way ?
even a cursory google shows there to be hundreds if not thousands of people with Flash issues in 64 bit and/or Ubuntu in general. Frequently down to video drivers and xorg configs.
exalt:unetbootin
Well nvm, I just looked inside the iso and all the binaries had a _i386 appended to it
:)
my guess would be it would be a video driver issue then..   maybe some software assisted rendering going on or something?
exalt, startup disk tool
well maybe you misinterpret what I mean by fine.  By "fine" I mean it is usable.
For you.
Not for many others.
that's what i was suspecting too
even on windows flash is a resource hog, so i agree with what jrib says. the issue is whether it is -more- resource intensive than suual
for everyone.
did you try unity-2d
not yet.
Why do you continue to talk nonsense. It does not work "fine" for everyone.
velcroshooz, yes, flash is kinda shitty, but it does work
error:0 error kellnola startup disk tool i dont know yet, lets have a look
rgr, thats enough please
point me to a bug
And flash works fine on some linu distros and not on others.
are you being serious? Even people in this irc channel have reported issues. 2 fps is NOT "running fine".
I was an icewm user for years because gnome and kde were both too bloated..  kind of happy that people are now finally seeing that a desktop environment doesn't need to get in your way
exalt, "System Tools -> Startup Disk Creator"
64bit is a pain in the neck for the desktop. it is excellent for servers running huge applications but for the desktop the wise thing to do is to install 32bit
im on windows
jatt, I agree here
jatt & rgr..  I agree...
downgrading would basically deinstall most of the software I use, like firefox and gimp
Hi all, after a (seeminglly harmless) upgrade of Lucid kvm-qemu package to 0.12.3+noroms-0ubuntu9.5, the VMs do not open VNC ports, not even from monitor console, regardless of port number. VMs otherwise run normally. Has anyone encountered this?
so anyone knows about
yes, thats more my opinion. But I dont see the need for msot people to use 32 bit. It can often hog more resources with no notable performance increase too.
I disagree. There's no reason not to use 64bit on the desktop if your hardware handles it
a plugin in which you have a local cache copy of the server files you open, and while edditing them, changes are stored in cache
s/32/64
no probs with 64 bit on desktop here. Would not be able to use my 16GB of memory without it
if you really need 16 gigs then yes
I run a lot of VMs
then it makes sense.
My processor is an AMD Athlon x2 2.2 GHz dual core should I go for the x64 version of 11.04?
then it's NOT a desktop
Could someone fix the goof on the front page? They call Ubuntu "license-free", and it is not.
jaredquinn, of course it is
you need to remove that unofficial version of python
you are right, but for organizations is not rare to see servers running 64bit because their java "enterprise" applications require 64GB of ram :)
huh? Of course it is.
how much ram
jatt, LOL. yes
how much ram do you have?
4 GB
use 64bit
if you're running a heap of virtual machines on it.. then it's a server, and the service it's serving up is machines.\
yeah, go with 64
i suppose i'll install unity 2d and try it out.
And how do I install drivers for my graphics card its an ATI Mobility Radeon HD 4250
jaredquinn, it's a computer.
scarra3, Im using 32bit with PAE -> better compatibility
this machine is 64 bit and is 4 years old with 3 gigs. Cant imageine ever needing more ram on it with a Debian install but then I dont run VMs that often.
So, how do we get rid of Unity?
I've really grown fond of removing the lower panel and installing Docky
maybe I should just install debian.
granted, very OSX-like
but that was unity too anways
crashanddie or gnome or another desktop
crashanddie, the new debian is pretty awesome
so anyone knows about an editor in which you have a local cache copy of the server files you open, and while edditing them, changes are stored in cache?
Whats the general feeling about Unity? Is it easy to turn off?
if you *really* want to.. at the login prompt... you just select "Classic"
i kind of like the look and feel of gnome 3 though. although that might just be the novelty of it.
trx from system>admin<additional drivers
#btrfs
crashanddie, there is an option when booting to choose ubuntu classic instead
I think you can chose a gnome session instead of a unity session on login, don't give up so fast (I know unity sucks tho)
unity is gnoe isnt it?
nope
you select "classic desktop" at the login screen to turn it off
rgr, no
rgr, it isnt
well, gnome 3 sucks, and unity is horrendous.
I can't see the future getting better at this point.
I thought it was a new WM for gnome. Oh well!
rgr, its an own developement of canonical
Ok awesome thanks now I hope that my touchpad will finally work since it didn't work in 10.10
crashanddie, oh well, back to windowmaker
Would anyone be kind enough to provide the md5sum hash for the released i386 desktop 11.04 or a link to same? TIA
crashaddie, Im using KDE ;)
canonical wanted unity and gnome but gnome guys were against it (you know why once you see unity)
crikey. How ridiculous. A whole new DE? Are they releasing their own desktop apps as well?
s/and/in
it's not just about the look of it either
kellnola, or I'll fork gnome2 and keep maintaining it :)
unity looks like it is meant for a touchscreen to me
all new UI take time for them to mature, when kde 4 started everyone hated it, it has come around, grnome 2.x has had -years- of dev ..
rgr, correct
eek
why you think that unity is bad ?
it's designed with a slightly different appraoch to how a desktop environment should hang together, and ultimately you will have gnome, kde and other apps all running happily under it, rendering their bits the right way, sending notifications to teh right places and everything being magical.
jatt, Im going to test unity in a couple of minutes. but im not sure about unity. I got a proprietary graphic card driver
just select 'Ubuntu Classic' in the login screen...
I don't.. I love it.
yeah but canonical doesn't have the resources to maintain unity in the long term, gnome can be hated but they have lots of experience and developers on their side
but yes, it's easier to go emo about unity and install debian than click one dropdown...
You can still start in gnome by choosing ubuntu classic at login
but only because i've been digging around deep within it for a few weeks
damicita, no support for proprietary graphic cards
 np I hope it will work
hm... another stupid question, I tried to do that with synaptic but I can't actually perform the action because it says I have to repair defective packages
it will mother all the different DE apps to look and life the same? Ha. I will believe that when I see it.
s/life/feel
oh ...
Ya its an alps touchpad on my sony vaio
is it easy to test unity and then turn it off?
g4 YES
So Ubuntu 11.04 has been released, a big THANK YOU to all the devs and contributors! :)
link?
what is the fastest download accelerator for ubuntu?
g4, repos
ty
Btw do the torrents work yet
read above
you just select CLASSIC at the login prompt
and you get gnome\
 * rgr predicts unity will produce yet another incompatible suite of apoplication setting repositories and people will get very frustrated ...
ahh great :)
FFS
Read the doco people.
 in synaptic fix broken packages
<3 Ubuntu!
zvacet, won't work
Hi all, after a (seeminglly harmless) upgrade of Lucid kvm-qemu package to 0.12.3+noroms-0ubuntu9.5, the VMs do not open VNC ports, not even from monitor console, regardless of port number. VMs otherwise run normally. Has anyone encountered this?
easy on the language please
... and please give unity a chance.. and not just for five mintues.
but I think I found a way now
any UDS organizers here?
sigh .... thought there would be at least 2000 ppl in here ...
what are you talking about? He didnt swear.
disappointed?
ultimately unity will die if they don't provide software that pleases the user
yes he did
No he didn't.
no matter how smart their idea/architecture is
i get a strange bug, during boot my keyboard led is turning off and nothing will happen,if i press the power button the keyboard led will turn on and the bott continue
 in terminal   sudo dpkg --configure -a    sudo apt-get -f install
woot woot in the boot
rgr, lets move on
zvacet, thanks
Hell guys
good idea..  I didn't literally swear, but the implication was definitely carried in what i said.  So you are both right.
did he say "hell"?
ban him! ;)
are there any known chipsets that are buggy with Unity?
not important
np
why would chipsets be buggy with unity?
wow i am getting slow speed on the new release downloading
What's Narwhal in Arabic :-D ?
they would be buggy with compiz :)
zetheroo, yes, all proprietary graphic cards arent supported in unity-3D
Does anybody know, if the nasty broken dependencies on nvidia-96 drivers was fixed with 11.04?
rgr, 'cause unity requires 3D
thats a surprise on release day.
 Unity can't casuse you issues with teh chipset...
hehe
or Unity being buggy with chipsets ...
there is unity-2d
Im running sandy bridge which works ok but graphics is poor. 2d support only
lots of tearing etc
but.. there has been a few issues with the Intel lappy chipsets .. but they have been a kernel issue.
Intel?
Does anybody know, if the nasty broken dependencies on nvidia-96 drivers was fixed with 11.04?
which drivers?
karlhunt, did you try the latest manline kernel?
default
darn .. that is too bad
zetheroo, intel drivers arent proprietary, as I remember
الناروال الأنيق ؟
nvidia issues? have you used sgfxi?
Incarus6, I just keep up to date with the ubuntu kernel
sec
is there a more upstream one?
so how is unity compared to docky? Is it a step forward or something different?
is crap compared to gnome do
للحصول على الدعم باللغة العربية
I have a laptop with an Intel gfx chipset ... I would rather not upgrade only to find out the 3D Unity doesn't work ...
There is a terrible tendency for those that offer the least help in this group to be the ones popping in with the most net nannying. Its very sad.
nvidia binary packages for older cards - dependencies not met" [Undecided,Confirmed]
no updates on it for quite a while
zetheroo, otherwise try unity-2D
zetheroo, unity worked on my old gma intel chipset but sandy bridge has a new one.
karlhunt, are you using 11.04?
but I REALLY want the 3D :)
Incarus6, yup
karlhunt, Im not sure about the kernel version, what was it again in Natty?
I had issues with liquorix kernels with nvidia too. I dropped the liquorix usage as a result.
Incarus6, been running beta for a few weeks and did a dist-upgrade last night
what chipset are you on?
mine is Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960
Incarus6, 2.6.38-8-generic
Intel graphics?
it will be google-earth on ubuntu 11.04 ?
good luck with that..
GM965/GL96
karlhunt, yeah, that looks actual. I read something about the sandy bridge drivers in the changelog. cant remember if it was 2.6.38 or 2.6.39
I think my chip is an intel hd3000 whatever that is
how do I know if mine is a "sandy bridge" chipset?
zetheroo, I wasn't talking to you?
is that the same driver as the i915 / Arrandale?
hi friends ...we all know that ubuntu partitions are going to be mounted without any password . but i wanna make some security to my harddisk partitions while mounting them . so can any one help me to solve this problem
I think it is.
dammit, I can't upgrade
you asked me what my chipset was ...
my problem is only when the screen is coming back after a hibernate
you'd have to encrypt them, i don't think it's entirely trivial
offically realesed now?
yes
vibhav, yes
 how can i do that
guys, where do i find 11.04 release notes?
ok ... well I don't hibernate my machine ...
zetheroo, did you buy it in the last 2 months and is it core i5/i7 if not then unlikely
jaredquinn try 2 times press change screen on keyboard
OK!
Fn + F4 i have
hehe ... ok ... nah this is an R61 Thinkpad ... C2D
screen back
zetheroo, your graphics will be fine
cool
then I am really tempted to upgrade :)
Can anyone give me a decent network traffic controller (ping and alerts if rtt reaches a certain #ms) with graphic UI preferably? The built in NM in ubuntu 10.10 does not work. Thank you for your appreciation.
 now i am doing in my college system .do i have any links for this . i
just do it :)
I've been running it for a couple of weeks.. and not had any major issues
they always say that ... .
 cool , i hope ubuntu forums can solve this . ....any way thanks man
zetheroo, yeah, if all you use the computer for is web browsing and irc ... I am frankly horrified about video editing. 10.10 is bad enough
 thank you man
you've a bunch of stuff installed from other repos?   I'm guessing maybe Ubuntu Studio?
ok ... here goes everything ... ;)
jaredquinn, yeah.. but not ubuntu studio... any idea how I can upgrade? (or which package that causes? (maybe xorg))
I do a bit more than browsing and irc ... but no production level stuff
 that is great . i hope this can solve my issue .
how did you start your upgrade?
yw, good luck
hi, can someone please point me to an Ubuntu mirror that is a) accessible with rsync and b) carries the .iso images and c) is located somewhere in Europe. I'd like to conserve some bandwidth by rsyncing from the beta2 .iso images that I already have.
jaredquinn, line 588 could cause that problem
do-release-upgrade tells me that I can't upgrade, I believe that's because I've installed kde from ppa on my current system.. what's the way forward from there?
falxx, I would remove any ppa's before upgrading. and remove the software first
falxx, isnt related with the KDE ppa
did you answer how you kicked that upgrade off?
oh, well, may be virtualbox then?
falxx, pls paste /var/log/dist-upgrade/ files
 try apt-get -f install
sudo apt-get -f install
HI Guys, I get strange outbound connections from unison-gtk, e.g. to 209.85.149.102 (google). Its firestarter displaying me these connections. Can somebody explain what happens?
zvacet, isn't working (it is working but doesnt fix it), because all dependencies are correct. it seems to be a too new xorg version, so I have to fix it by hand
can anyone running 11.04 confirm the seperate wallpaper for dual monitor bug is gone? in 10.10 you need to ctrl alt f7 /ctrl alt f1 for it to work
 ok then I didn' try natty yet
zvacet, im still in 10.10
 * AdmV0rl0n hates unity :/
did you do a update-manager and then let it handle all the other bits?
why?
jaredquinn, yes. did you look at line 588?
When my screen dims it lags coming back out. Im going to try an upstream kernel
the one that says   Fixing mountall:i386 via keep of plymouth:i386
apt-get dist-upgrade is it enough for updating my beta natty to the final release?
should be
if you need to do it cli-based try do-release-upgrade (should be in the package update-manager-core)
ashmew2, do-release-upgrade ?
 * ugisozols starting upgrade
yeah
this **** log files doesnt tell me anything :D
 * ashmew2 starting upgrade. :)
 * Incarus6 starting fixing
 he is already running the 11.04 beta
allright, pasting 1450 lines
 he is upgrading from beta so there is no need for that
OH !. i must have overlooked
sorry
=/
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
so apt-get dist-upgrade is fine?
yes
yes. (lol...)
 ;)
and btw is there anyway I can check if its final?
falxx, link?
final release*
hehe :P
lsb_release -a
there isn't even one likeable aspect to unity. not for me anyway. don't worry, I feel the same about gmone3 also. I have no idea what the UI designers think they are doing, but they are not building anything of value.
hi all, is there a good application i can use to keep track of tasks, with that minimizes to the tray maybe?
zvacet, thanks
falxx, look at line 438
Hi all, after a (seeminglly harmless) upgrade of Lucid kvm-qemu package to 0.12.3+noroms-0ubuntu9.5, the VMs do not open VNC ports, not even from monitor console, regardless of port number. VMs otherwise run normally. Has anyone encountered this?
yw
falxx how u guys are going to analyse this much ....where is the mistake ?
genupulas, he cant upgrade
is it ok to create a user with name "user" ?
hello, is there any website about unity?
bencc, yes but it isn't very useful
yeah, and then 200 more of those.. uninstall all packages marked as broken?
why not?
what about it ?
 how  can you say that  ? how you have analysed that
 name it as you wish
bencc, sure why not.
falxx, are you sure, tha package "amd64" is in the repo? that package seems to be the reason
hi
why is the ubuntu website broken ?
so I can check out some screenshots or videos? :)
Ubuntu bug 648180 in unity (Ubuntu) "Unity sucks" [Undecided,Opinion]
hi
genupulas, he said it isn't working, wer are analysing the log files now
hello
"ure"?
omgubuntu.co.uk/natty/
 I thought there is a reserved name or something
because no one could have predicted the extra traffic today :p
falxx, "ure"?
bencc, well, if everyone did that ...
thanks!
it says
bencc, dont name another one root, thats about it
 overloaded probably  :)
its just the arch
well.. ye some dependencies css, js files, etc are not loading
 * kellnola is waiting until June to dist-upgrade
 you mean the entire code he has given ....
ok, thanks.
why is the 32-bit 'recommended' ?
falxx.. i never said "ure" *confused* or right.. the package ure... yeah, that could cause the problem
but hey, I can just remove openoffice for now
everyone want new release at first day so we all can have problems with servers
ubuntu.com works for me
I've installed vnc4server and ubuntu desktop.  I started :1 and killed it to create the config file for VNC.  I get the error "GTK-Warning ** cannot open display" when I execute "sudo gedit ~/.vnc/xstartup".  How can I remedy this?
genupulas, its a log file (var/log/dist-upgrade/apt.log
for most use cases it takes less memory
64-bit as a long history of trouble in the desktop
is the website hosed for anyone else (from a stylesheet perspective?
TORRENTS people
jatt, yeah like 4 years ago
batman people
Hello I need some help please!
jatt, rly? I've run 64-bit on the desktop for years with no problem
if you have more than 4GB of ram, maybe you need the 64bit (on windows you do)
 +1
jbwiv___, it was, reload cache
true
Does anyone here use any kind of programe for linux like photoshop???
Please don't ask to ask a question, simply ask the question (all on ONE line and in the channel, so that others can read and follow it easily). If anyone knows the answer they will most likely reply. :-)
Psydoll, gimp is the best by far
GIMP
Psydoll, gimp
gimp i see!
Higlighted icons for Kaffeine and Amarok in launcher (or dash) look like disaster...
Hi, 11.04 released today right ?
Psydoll, but it does not have all the features of photoshop 4 or 5
velory1, yes
sudo apt-get install gimp?
asking this because I was using 11.04 beta and today I can't see any update
 it is out
load firmware Error with ralink [1814:0781]" [Medium,Fix released]
zvacet, PhoenixS ^^
64-bit is a pain in the neck
anyway
 I think you have gimp by default
so the sane thing to do is to use 32bit you won't lose performance or anything
zvacet i cant find it under applications?
works fine for me
unless you need lots of ram
I'll torrent the new release for a while. Should help as its a 100MB connection.
so can't we update from rc to release version or did I already updated?
8gb mem, I need 64bit
gimp is not installed by default.
how can I know
It's the other way around.
i don't think it was in in 10.10 either
under graphic I think (I'm not at ubuntu comp right now)
is gimp stil under active development? it doesn't seem to have moved forward in a while
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo apt-get install gimp
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree
Reading state information... Done
Unable to locate package gimp
!info gimp
sorry i got that errir
The GNU Image Manipulation Program. In component main, is optional. Version 2.6.10-1ubuntu3.2 (maverick), package size 4231 kB, installed size 12276 kB
kellnola, yes, gimp 3 is to be released soon
Incarus6, \o/
zvacet its not there it doesnt come with it
its int he repos, cuz i installed it, check your repository listing
uhm. please pastebin your /etc/apt/sources
gimp is soon to hit a new milestone, still inder active development
uhm. please pastebin your /etc/apt/sources.list
hello guys, just upgraded to natty, how to get dash full screen by default
I get the error "GTK-Warning ** cannot open display" when I execute "sudo gedit ~/.vnc/xstartup".  What can I do?
can't I update from RC version to Release version or how can I know which version I'm using right now ?
kellnola, they got a slow programming progress ;)
trans, ? ctrl-alt F1
use gksudo gedit instead
If you install a development version of Ubuntu Natty and keep up with package updates, then you will be upgraded to the official release of 11.04 when it comes out. To make sure, type « sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade » in a console.
your DM isnt running :/
64bit is almost always better as far as performance goes, and PAE allows using < 64G memoery on 32bit..
 enable universe repo in ubuntu software center>edit>repositories
if you use gnome its GDM
hmm
:(
I hate natty whale
:S
I don't have full window effect
why?
he is a narwhal, big differnece
VlRUS, are u using Unity?
I tried sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
Nop
Ubuntu classic
 so is it possible to learn which version I'm using ?
VlRUS, sure you arent?
do you currently have a graphical desktop, or not?
nope
To find out what version of Ubuntu you have, type « lsb_release -a » in a !shell - To know the available version of a package, « apt-cache policy <package> »
ok nothing happened??
I'm using Gnome
really, 32 bit is for 1GB or less, anything more gives a performance hit vs. 64 bit. I can't imagine anyone having 1GB on a desktop these days. I am broke and have the mem.
william2, better try "sudo start gdm" or "sudo stop gdm"
then gedit won't work. use "sudo nano" instead, it's quite easy to use as an editor
 thanks
It saok
kellnola, some of us dont want to deal with multilib issues, so stick with 32
And I installed amd radeon 6850 hd drivers (catalyst) and i haven't fully window effects
:S
where can we look window effects ?
gdm
velcroshooz, yeah. One of the things RHEL actually did right was make all 32 bit libs and apps available by just appending ".i386" to the package name
alt + f7
 system>preferences>appearance
Hi
sorry im in SSH
kellnola, i have to run wine still so 64 bit makes me jump through a few hooops i would rather not
i can load vnc session :1 and see a terminal box
but that's it
 because of new (on the left) menu I can't find system > preferences :Ğ
:P
i have installed gnome
hmm
I SAID SAUSAGE MCMUFFIN YOU FAGGOTS NOT SAUSAGE MCGRIDDLE
 * zfk pukes
but that other computer where you have connection
is there GDM
 there's no window effects tab
 using natty?
no im on a mac
I have upgraded to 11.04 and that is reaaaaaaally nice ! I have a just alittle problem. I have a dual screen setup and my unity launcher is on th wrong one... how do i move it ?
 yes
join #ubuntu-ops if you wish to be unmuted
sorry, let me clarify. i'm trying to get vnc remote desktop sessions running on a vps
I have Ubuntu 11.04 natthy whale final version Buuuuuuuut i don't have window effects!! Extra effects i'm telling T.T
 sorry then I didn't try it yet
i just installed ubuntu 10.04 lts
Jarod51, switch the cables? :/
sd
kellnola, hé hé hé
Jarod51, you can do it in Xorg.conf
sdh, I think so too
you still there? :p
yes i am
i know that you can startup graphics with ssh
there is own parameter for that
hit window key and type in appearance
window key?
nvm they got rid of it. You'd have to install compizconfig-settings-manager if you want to add more effects
i just installed 11.04, and it seems awesome
same here v
:)
wait, does unity use compiz or does it have it's own thing?
kellnola, usews compiz
-X parameter read from man ssh
compiz is on
kellnola, now compiz, somewhere in the far future wayland...
whats GOING ON?
can someone help me pls with openldap configuration pls? the slapd.conf file doesn't exist despite the fact that the daemon runs
i don't know, what is?
CAN SOMEONE TELL ME HOW TO PLAY EVE ONLINE ON UBUNTU?
PLEASE DON'T SHOUT! We can read lowercase too.
ok
sorry
DarkStar1, IIRC, isn't it in /etc/slapd/ ?
wine/virtualbox => windows => ubuntu :0
ok
this laptop often shuts down randomly after a while. I can't find anything indicating a reason for this in syslog, where should I look? It seems to be a normal shutdown as started by running sudo halt - windows close one by one until only the desktop background is visible, then the normal splash screen shows up and the computer turns off after a while.
PsyI see more than half a dozen "how-to's" in the first page of results...
no such directory..
i tried 11.04 on my box. im considering  replace the debian on my laptop
and I have installed slapd twice now
An_Ony_Moose
An_Ony_Moose, did you google the issue. sry
DarkStar1, dpkg -L slapd
is the sentence « he's a man of the good » correct ? or grammatically right ?
nameless`, no
grammatically, yes I suppose
even in a book ? something unusual ?n
Uhm
nameless`, well if it's creative writing ok
nameless`, it works, he's a good man is more appropriate these days, but whatev
what should I google? ubuntu shutdown? It isn't a very specific issue and I'd like to know where to look for a reason.
kellnola thanks to both of you
Hi everyone.  My Ubuntu can't seem to access the repos.  Is that because of overuse?
did you try to apt-get update before ?
That won't complete
change your mirrors then
Most likely, with it being a new release, the servers will be under heavy use
It's saying "Downloaded 0B of 1B"
it's ridiculous
An_Ony_Moose, it could be an issue related to your hardware. sounds like a problem with overheating or in general something like that (energy saving?). Or it could be that you press the wrong buttons
anyway I suppose I can live with a couple of days of no repo
anyon else? since kellnola has disappeared?
thegoodcushion, you can try to change the update server to a local one instead of the generl servers
ok
DarkStar1, explain the exact problem
So what's the verdict on 11.04?
don't upgrade
can't upgrade
I'm a bit unsure about Unity
i have more info on the minecraft crashing issue
I'm not.
here's a pastebin of the java console output
I've installed slapd twice now and trying to configure it, and check the conf file for errors because I can't add schemas to openldap but it doesn't have a slapd.conf file as listed by the tutorials
Unity isn't for me.
Not unless it goes through a sever amount of adding configurability to it.
is it as simple as just selecting not to use it?
AdmV0rl0n, not for me either.... I moved to Xubuntu
I installed pidgin and closed the contact list. i have a contact window open. How do i get the contact list back? Clicking on the pidgin icon in the unity bar on the left does nothing. there's no system tray icon.
thegoodcushion, log into clasic desktop instead
gnome 3 isn't for me either.
DarkStar1, sometimes ubuntu tries to find the right configuration and you dont have a configuration file by default (like xorg.conf), so you have to create it. or did it change the "position" / directory?
is it as simple as that?
hm. found some cpus for my ubuntu server for $50
are you a KDE man?
nope
2.6 dual core opterons.. awesome
thegoodcushion, pretty much for 11.04
i have 2 dual core 1.8 265s now :)
I worry that the GNOME environment won't be as well-supported as Ubuntu moves away from it
thegoodcushion, 11.10 may not be
that should be a good bump
I have not liked much now for a long time. I think most of the desktop direction is wrong, is bad, and seems to be being built for tablets, not desktops.
so you didnt got that SUN JAVA even minecraft needs it
dpkg -L slapd    <-- maybe there's a sample config file somewhere?
but how would I find out? /var/log/syslog tells me nothing useful, where else can I look?
hello when come 11.10
When I try to open the settings of a virtual machine in VM Box it says "failed to access the USB subsystem". What can I do please ?
thegoodcushion, have you taken a look at what gnome is doing anyway....... looks similar to unity to me
tsaknorris, I did, but I can't figure out how to launch it with that one via terminal
hi, can someone please point me to an Ubuntu mirror that is a) accessible with rsync and b) carries the .iso images and c) is located somewhere in Europe. I'd like to conserve some bandwidth by rsyncing from the beta2 .iso images that I already have.
GNOME is not Unity
no it didn't change directory but according to the document it comes with a config file but I don't see any in it's directory
uhm... is zfs built into the 11.04 install?
hello when come 11.10
So any other opinions about 11.04 out there?
October 2011
An_Ony_Moose, I can't help you with that, sry
ok, thanks anyway
anyone? seems like a pretty awful UI...can't even get the contact list back. no system tray icon
I just installed 11.04 and I'm loving it :)
thegoodcushion, i realise that, but gnome 3 screenshots (shell) look similar to unity shell
hi
Not as far as I know, and likely might never be..
DarkStar1, /etc/X11/xorg.conf doesn't exist too, you have to create that file first
is natty good to go?
I grepped a .conf out of that just now and found just one file in the manual directory?
What's the gcc/clang on 11.04?
any of the mirrors should support rsync
Natty Narwhal is the codename for Ubuntu 11.04 - Natty is NOT released and is NOT stable - Discussion and support only in #ubuntu+1
So i was running the 11.04 beta release, and when i try and to an update, it says I can only do a partial upgrade?
which version I mean
sudo apt-get install sun-java6-jre
hopefully some day
rsync doesnt care where you are pulling from
When I try to open the settings of a virtual machine in VM Box it says "failed to access the USB subsystem". What can I do please ?
Natty is released.
got it
thatd probably be a sensible place to put example files
nerdshell, I thought it had been released
anyways... bbl.. when the 11.04 hype dies down
I have the runtime installed
that needs to be updated
er... distrowatch say its released
:)
11.04 is officially released, the bot needs to be updated
xubuntu 11.04 also released?
it's a very complicated file to create and as it's supposed to have stuff in there that, when I read about, looks very complicated... Can't believe it's meant to be created by your average joe
When I try to open the settings of a virtual machine in VM Box it says "failed to access the USB subsystem". What can I do please ?
replace jre also with jdk
!natty
esp a beginner
My dash in ubuntu is not working - when I type to search for gedit, the circle just spins for couple of seconds and finds nothing
I wasn't able to find such a server. care to give me an example of a mirror that fulfills all the three conditions I mentioned?
So i was running the 11.04 beta release, and when i try and to an update, it says I can only do a partial upgrade? And that doesn't even seem to work...Am i not able to update via update-manager?
factoid updated.
is it installed?
and you cannot maybe use both javas..open and sun...you have to remove openjdk....
As above...
good work
I installed ubuntu 11.04     3 days agon
Ola bruderz
no are you sure gedit is installed
tsaknorris, so maybe it's still going through openjdk even though I choose sun?
Pici bruder && ikonia bruder
yes
 * ^Phantom^ goes and removes open
 it does not find anything
Can anyone with 11.04 type gcc -v and clang -v and tell me what versions of each are installed by default?
you can use synaptic package manager its easier....
yes
^Phantom^,  open synaptic   hit search  and type  icedtea,,, remove all installed packages  and sun will be default at t hat point
 neither alt + 2
packages.ubuntu.com is likely enough for you
doing so now
Is there a way to attach menus back onto their app windows? having it in the top bar is very annoying
im off now..bye all :)
oh boy ,, is everyone on natty now ?? :)
shuould I reinstall unity?
no
uninstall it
Flynsarmy,   you mean in Unity?
if i were allowed I would be using many creative words to describe how i feel about unity right about now lol
yep
Flynsarmy,  well no unless you log off and then change the session to classic gnome
huh?
Flynsarmy, on login you can choose ubuntu classic, gnome 2.x
that'll only save me until they remove classic :(
I'd like to move the top-bar in unity to the bottom, which is the way I had it before upgrading to 11.04. but I'm not even able to right-click the top bar or drag it or do anything. suggestions?
Flynsarmy,  I hear you  for sure,,   Unity is best used on small screens  so   use classic gnome
hello ll
whats the easiest way to add a shortcut to the new unity sidebar?
Damn! took me 3 minutes to download 11.04! I'm surprised it wasn't slower with all the downloads going on.
Flynsarmy, thats six months to the day at the VERY leats ;)
drag it there
Flynsarmy,  if classic is removed at some point,, I am guessing it will be an easy install
lol not many people use ubuntu
doesnt work
has anyone here upgraded to natty yet?
must be setuid root" in 10.04
 I really don't know what to do.  I watched the video of new 11.04 and wanted to try it. I really love how it  look but most functions does not work. I wander if there something which didn't install correctly, just don't know how to find out
okay, trying with openjdk uninstalled
i wonder if the point of unity was to make things easier to do or to hide things from the screen. seems everything takes at the bare minimum 1 extra click to do. hell - finding what apps you have installed is now a fight between man and machine
actually  there should be 2  releases   Unity   and ubuntu
Hi, what is the difiference between version terminating by .10 and those   terminating by .04
For the record, clang 2.8 and gcc 4.5.2
at least that is my opinion
launch, its the month number
ok let me boot into natty
.10 comes out in october .04 is in april
thanks
so some people are having problems with natty?
wow having an app open in unity is annoying. and I can't even alt-tab into a new tab. I have to minimise my app so I can select another one. since of course there's no task bar either
:S
If I upgrade to 11.04 what do I lose from 10.10?
Seems to be running good so far
ok, has anyone dist-upgraded to 11.04 from 10.10 server i386? have any 'gotchas' been discovered? :)
 * ^Phantom^ knocks on wood
unity was intended to by an April 1.
has anyone got anything good to say about unity lol
joke
join
not yet :o
this channel is going to be drowned with unity haters for the next few months :/
haha
how do I install gnome3 on 11.04?
yeah i am not bothering with ubuntu desktop
interested in server though...
I'd love to love unity, but I can't figure out how anything works.
!netsplit
elb0w, you can install the unstable ppa
I agree
it doesn't seem very handy :S
!gnome3
Unity in suffering
hehe
i am not a guinea pig, i wait for everyone else to figure out the problems
[TK]D-Fender, was asking here incase of the "DONT DO IT"
unity is beta
i dreaded icons on the left but they turned out to be a pleasant surprise so i went into this very open minded. but....the only real way to describe this is 'wtf'. what were they thinking?
hey guys, I just installed Natty and upon attempting to connect to the wireless it's asking for me to unlock the default keyring.  It's not the password I created on install and leaving it blank doesn't work either. I'm not using autologin which reportedly would create this prompt in order to create a password. Unfortunately I'm woefully lacking knowledge of the keyring system
can you move the unity bar to the bottom?
the left one
Then you should have asked "Is it a bad idea to install Gnome3 on 11.04?"
is there a way to upgrade without update-manager? dist-upgrade doesn't show any new packages
let me check
elb0w,  if you install gnome3  it will break Unity
you need to update, safe-upgrade first
so that the new update-manager can be installed
Thank you for your time, everyone that helped me.  It is playing fine once again.
If I'm going to dual boot windows 7 and ubuntu..
If I'm going to dual boot windows 7 and ubuntu, all the NTFS partitions will be available to both right ?
I guess is not possible?
should be
Yes
linux can read/write ntfs partitions
So that means even the main Windows 7 partition will be available ?
where the windows os is installed?
z0mbyk1d, well, update-manager's crashing/hanging when I click upgrade, so I'm looking for another way to do that
Go into passwords and encryption keys, I presume is should be there, you can delete it from there which will re-make it next time..
yes
yes
it is
I don't see a way but you can check. If you install compizconfig-settings-manager it will give you all theoptions to configure unity
Soothsayer,  yes although I would google      ubuntu dual boot  windows 7   to be sure there are no particular things that have to be done
coz_, do you promise? haha
Will it break anything else?
thanks I'll give it a try
I am using unity-2d
no compiz I guess
whats the relase room?
always expect it to break everything.
I'm sure this has been answered a hundred times already, but is there anyway to install gnome 3 on 11.04 ? I know it doesn't come with it by default
guess ill wait a bit then before I put it on my dev box
elb0w,    that one I am not sure,,, you could remove unity,,, and then install gnome3  ,, however,,, gnome3 uses mutter as the compositor,, I dont think it can   compete with compiz
!party > kristoffer_
kristoffer_, please see my private message
quick Question guys, if i am doing a regular install and not a wubi one, and i am using 2 partitions (3 inc swap) one for / and one for home, what size / should be a good size
I heard there's a PPA if you want to try that, I have no experience with it though
 kk ty
~20G
Has anyone been able to upgrade to the 11.04 release from the 11.04 beta release through update-manager??
Hello, are there any easy ways to get a touch screen to work on ubuntu?
k mate thx
If you install a development version of Ubuntu Natty and keep up with package updates, then you will be upgraded to the official release of 11.04 when it comes out. To make sure, type « sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade » in a console.
11.04 is LTS?
Good day #ubuntu, it's going to be a long day today :)
No.
Or, well with a separate home, you'll probably be more thatn fine with ~10G
when's the next LTS out?
DirtyDawg, the OS requires around 4 gigs, so how much you need for apps and ata outside of that is your decision
brianl,   all you need to do is  sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade  to get up to speed
That is what I have been doing
when I boot Ubuntu 11.04, it stops loading. And doing nothing, until I press ENTER. It happen on boot screen (this bronze background, and nothing else, even Ubuntu logo). Where I should report it, which package to report (Launchpad?). I'm using Nvidia proprietary driver.
kk
lucid is the current LTS, right?
12.04
12.04 (2012, April)
how do i upgrade the server edition from maverick to natty??
aight
which one should i choose to install ubuntu, ext3 or ext4?
aptitude dist-upgrade doesn't do anything
sudo do-release-upgrade
ahh right
A dist-upgrade will install new dependencies for packages already installed and may remove packages if they are no longer needed. Please see !upgrade for the proper way to upgrade to a new version of Ubuntu.
any gotchas with server pici?
like, should I not do it?
does 11.04 include a kernel for running as domU on xen?
I didn't have any issues here.
coz_, Its saying I can only do a partial upgrade?
z0mbyk1d,    try sudo apt-get  dist-upgrade
Hello ALL! I just woke up - Is Natty out yet?
i dont use apt-get
brianl,  ooo
i'll use do-release-upgrade
thanks pici
brianl,  well right now I cant even get an update / upgrade,,, the servers are bogged down,, so hold on for a bit
 * ImperialXT slaps NerdPatrol and points at the topic
gonna be pissed if it breaks this system
NerdPatrol, it's out
when I boot Ubuntu 11.04, it stops loading. And doing nothing, until I press ENTER. It happen on boot screen (this bronze background, and nothing else, even Ubuntu logo). Where I should report it, which package to report (Launchpad?). I'm using Nvidia proprietary driver.
it's my monitoring machine
mysql, cacti, nagios, etc
coz_, Yeah, I guess that is the same problem I am having, it won't let me upgrade anything :D
coz_, E:Unable to correct problems, you have held broken packages. <-- error I am getting when trying to update
I had to remove my ppa's
good day. im on a LIVE CD right now, but i have no settings for compiz or any graphic effecs. no unity either. what can i do?
from my update list
sorry, back.
ImperialXT, ppa's?
brianl,  ok open synaptic package manager and under the "Edit"  menu   click   "fix broken packages"
!ppa brianl
PPAs are unsupported third-party packages, and you use them at your own risk.
that's typical of the live cd, I'm not sure if you can force enable them, but after install unity and the like worked just fine
HF_acid, you mean after you installed the ubuntu on harddrive, or do you have to install unity manually? i thought its on the ISO already.
coz_, Okay thanks, ill try again
ImperialXT, okay thank you
I have two hard drives and I plan to dual boot Win 7 and Ubuntu.. I've heard that it's better (in terms of performance) to put both the operating systems on one drive and all data files on another
after I installed on the harddrive, it's on the iso but I don't think it's enabled during livecd runs
Is there really a considerable difference?
hi
whats the default Filesystem in 11.04 ?
ext4
ext4
ext4
lol
Well is something goes wrong with your boot drive you don't have to worry about the data on your other drive
hello guys, how to get dash in full screen mode by default
trans edit dconf
dconf-editor
is btrfs recommended ?
gstreamer>unity>form factor
when I boot Ubuntu 11.04, it stops loading. And doing nothing, until I press ENTER. It happen on boot screen (this bronze background, and nothing else, even Ubuntu logo). Where I should report it, which package to report (Launchpad?). I'm using Nvidia proprietary driver. Can somebody answer me please?
Kaushal no
true. Though I'm talking about performance?
oh, ok
Any specific reason ?
Soothsayer, i think its always a good idea to have th operating system and data on different partitions/harddrives, reguardless of dual boot
any updated themes for natty, old themes aren't working nice
ok.
hi! is it possible to tell update-manager to download the packages for upgrading to natty now, and then use them to do the upgrade later?
Having less simultaneous access on your drives should give higher performance
Common logic
pioruns_, try to disable the bootup screen and see on what it freezes.
good afternoon
so what locations would I mount on the other drive in Ubuntu ?
the /home/ , /var/   ?
kaushal, no it is very very beta
exit
After your package information was updated the essential package 'ubuntu-minimal' can not be found anymore
normally Ubuntu will point them to /mnt automatically and you just click to mount from Nautilus
konaya, how to disable it? splash off or something, in GRUB?
at startup unity session  tells me unity can't run due harware , but if i launch manualy 'unity --replace' unity starts but gnome-panel stays present
what can i do please?
Or /media .. I mix those up sometimes
zniavre, did you try unity-2d?
what video chip do you use?
pioruns_, i am experiencing some similar problems i will be downloading the alternative cd tomorrow you may need to press f6 at the halt !
pioruns_, I don't know the exact procedure. Worse, I'm on my way out. Google it and/or get help from someone else. I think I pushed you in the right direction, though
I didn't understand this "normally Ubuntu will point them to /mnt automatically and you just click to mount from Nautilus"
zniavre, kill gnome-panel app
is this a clean install or an upgrade?
upgrade
hmm, does anyone know if theres a way to force effects and unity on LIVE run? i would like to try out before installing.
are you using natty?
my home directory should be on the data drive right ?
there were alot of issues on the issues page when doing upgrades
My other drives were always visible in Nautilus.  I click and it auto-mounts and I'm just going through my partitions on it
where can i set the email addresses that apticron emails when updates are necessary?
what video chip are you using?
thanks, konaya, botcity. Also in my foreign ubuntu forum I saw posts from people with same problem. I will investigate it later
installed dconf, what next
Ubuntu 10.10 is telling me EVERY 5 MINUTES to update to Natsy!
my home directory should be on the data drive right ? <- up to you
How do I tell it shut up? :)
open dconf-editor
Incarus6,  i do not like unity-2d
is natty released yet? ;-)
ActionParsnip,  nvidia fx5500 173.14.30 drivers
ActionParsnip, not sure, it just came up asking me to upgrade. Flynsarmy I think i will just do a clean install then, thanks
it's natty
zniavre, which graphic card are you using?
anyone having this problem php5-gmp:
rrr there hers always been  a bit of problems with upgrading
php5-common (=5.3.2-1ubuntu4) but 5.3.2-1ubuntu4.2 is to be installed
riktking, yes
I use /home on my OS drive and I manually move what I want to my data drive.  I count my entire OS drive as being separate.
pioruns_, it restarts
hi yall
dconf-editor is not valid command
I also want to do some database intensive development work. And I believe MySQL stores the database in /var , so where should I mount the /var ?
ActionParsnip, i git a GTX460
You don't have to keep stuff in /home
go to desktop>unity
hey guys
change the form factor in drop down to
then
is there a package that block an user inside a directory ?
hello anyone!!
nretbook
I see. I'm just used to seeing everything in /home .. like the documents, pictures, etc
netbook
user1 ---> /var/test
n restart compiz
then install nvidia-current then restart the X server, you will be able to run unity
hi! is it possible to tell update-manager to download the packages for upgrading to natty now, and then use them to do the upgrade later?
compiz --replace
Soothsayer:That's a personal choice.  I have always preferred to file things where *I* want them to be
I am using Natty, and for some reason I can't seem to find/get working lib32ncurses5-dev,is32-libs,lib32readline5-dev, or lib32z-dev? On 10.10 or 10.04 I was able to just apt-get install them but not on natty?
so if i'm using user1 i cant read below /var/test
is it possible?
trans u need to install it
Hello ...
your call dude, all you need are the nvidia drivers installing
ActionParsnip, i thought Unity-3D isnt supported with proprietary nvidie drivers?
Where is ubuntu-11.04 DVDs ?
So you are saying just keep the entire Ubuntu on one drive... and then use a partition from the data drive for all my data?
yes
For your DB question... I'd say put it on the drive where it will have the most % of free resources to itself
sure it is, if you have 3D accelleration you can run Unity
I installed just "dconf"
now installing proper one
won't that be the data drive?
So you are saying just keep the entire Ubuntu on one drive... and then use a partition from the data drive for all my data? <- That is what I like to do.  Its a personal thing.  For me the OS is a tool, but my datat is sacred
hmm i thought you can run unity without drivers. i mean i cant even run compiz. i was able to do so on my old system on older builds without drivers
oops i used rsync to daily
Is it possible to customize unity?
is tht same as fink
won't that be the data drive? <- for the case you've been describing, it sounds like "yes"
no?
lugan
its released today so won't it be the same thing?
a little
ActionParsnip,  I didnt think so   thanks
dsathe, How?
Lungan,   not sure  ,, depends on what you want to customize
i wud recoment omgubuntu.co.uk and webupd8.org
brillinat for all goodies info
lugan
As you can see, this is a large channel. If you're speaking to someone in particular, please put their nickname in what you say (use !tab), or else messages get lost and it becomes confusing :)
hmm.. so how should I keep the databases itself onto the other drive ... through a symlink ?
in ccsm
someone could hel me ?
coz_, Would like to customize the bar at the top of the screen
*help
Lungan,   the gnome panel... yes?
I'm not sure.. if I don't mount /var to the data drive, then how do I make sure MySQL databases are actually on the data drive.
aLky, thats the best, unless you want work ahead,and dont mind,  theres has been problems in the pasts with it upgrading ubuntu
coz_, Yeah
Lungan,  well do you want to change its appearance or add applets to it?
no ?
nowhere on that page does it say Unity isn't supported on proprietary drivers
coz_, both
That is certainly one way to do it.  I'm pretty sure you could change your configs to explicitly point elsewhere through... that is a DB config issue you'd have to actually look at their own docs for
its users saying if you want 3d effects you will need proprietary
thanks
Lungan, you are allowaed to change the shadow of the top panel
makes sense.
Unity is definitely supported on nvid ia closed drivers
Lungan,   ok,, well to change its appearance you need to go to system/preferences/appearance  and hit the customize button,,, to add applets to it  just right click the panel    "Add to panel"  and choose from a list of available applets
has anyone tried 11.04 yet?
Happy Release Day
guys is 11.04 slow, it hangs whenevr I try to access dash, do I need to install unity 2d, I'm using P4 machine with 1 gb ram
coz_, since upgrading to 11.04 nothing happens when rightklicking?
20 mins until both 32/64 bit releases finish downloading here :)
any way to disable meta button to open launcher?
if you boot to regular desktop then make the unity bar you can change the top bar
damiano__, yes
tnx :)
 Lungan  ooo,,, that's not good,, I assume you have already rebooted ,, probably several times... not sure then,, troubleshooting an upgrade as opposed to a clean install,, can sometimes be painful
have you installed 3D drivers. also make sure you are fully upgraded
coz_, Hmm ok, but maybe they will fix it in the future? Its not that i cant use thecomputer
:)
does ubuntu 11.04 come with gnome 3.0?
no
good
is natty being released today?
:)
it is
It has been
I have installed nvidia drivers, nvidia 8400gs
Lungan,  oh  wow thats bad,, did you try to  change the session to  classic gnome?   see if there is a performance difference
ActionParsnip, "/usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p" is interesting
I have installed nvidia drivers, nvidia 8400gs, 512mb
DJones, wow.. and i missed it.
 * Incarus6 still can't upgrade
Which key should I alter in dconf-editor
upgrading from OVH IPv6 mirror, hehe
trans,  you already rebooted after install the nvidia drivers ....yes?
coz_, I will try. I like the new dock thought
i hope there got perl 5.12.3
No you haven't... it's still "released" ;)
 BadRequest (invalid request code or no such operation)"
trans desktop>unity>formfactor
yes, I upgraded today morning since then its slow
coz_, But is there anywhere I can choose size and so on on the dock?
just clik on it itll drop down
Lungan,  ok  well,, if your system cant handle it,,, and from you mentioned it should work fine,, you can in stall  unity-2d  ,,, by the way   which video card is on that system?
[TK]D-Fender, thanks for sympathy. :D
 * ugisozols just booted into 11.04
ok installing nvidia drivers right now
whats a fast mirror? (downloading with 60k atm and i dont think its my connection)
stupid ugisozols got a working 11.04 -.- :D
one in a hundred is pretty good for a Ubuntu release.
how do i revert to proper gnome?
damn me :P
ubuntutryout777,  dont forget to reboot the system after installing that driver :)
Will my ubuntu beta update to release version automaticly?
bercik_, yes
Flynsarmy, choose gnome at startup / login screen
there is no form factor option inside unity, only options available are "devices","launcher","panel"
thanks
reboot the system? on a LIVE system?
thanks
is it worth upgrading to 11.04?
dconf-editor
not gconf
your call
you wouldnt think to check the login dialog options?
ubuntutryout777,  you are installing the nvidia driver on a live session?
bercik_, yes, with apt-get dist-upgrade
its very much dere
Hello, I'm on Ubuntu 10.4 and wanting to upgrade to 11.4 as I just read it was released. However, it's not listed in the update manager after refreshing. (I have it set to normal releases) Only 10.10 is shown. Am I missing something?
i wouldn't. i would have figured it'd be in appearance settings
ubuntutryout777,   let me know if it works
yes, since i want to tryout ubunto, not install it on HDD
sorry for my dumb question, I got it
its far more than appearance its the entire DE.
ite I'm going for it lol
ubuntu*
You have to upgrade to 10.10 before you can upgrade to 11.04
hi
in addition search for 'unity' and you get a little window called 'launcher & menus' with 2 options on it. why was that not also in appearance. seems very hidden away
hello, is it possible to do the upgrade from the commandline?
Ok, thanks! Was sure you were able to upgrade from long term version to another :)
11.04 is not LTS
hi
hio
Yes, do-release-upgrade.
ty Pici
You can from LTS to LTS, but 11.04 is a normal release and not an LTS
i'm having trouble starting unity by default, even when choosing "Ubuntu" from gdm combobox
Oh, I thought all the x.04's were long term
Pici, that is also working with the desktop edition?
how can i set unity as default?
Yes.
so it doesn't come with gnome3... why?
Pici, thx
whenever I click on dash it takes about 3 seconds for the dash to launch
unity,whats that?
Gawwad,  no next lts is 12.04   april of 2012
because Ubuntu is branching more and more from mainline Linux desktops.
Thank you coz_
ok, whats the command to restart x server?
6.06, 8.04, 10.04 were LTS, about every 2 years between LTS versions
a buggy attempt by canonical to tie people to Ubuntu.
usually sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart does the trick.
47b5d74bfe8352e95b9699
Lets try to stay on-topic here. this is a support channel.
hi. i cannot download the latest release. link i get appears to be broken
i got problem with xorg in my laptop for ubuntu greater than 8.10 ... so am using backtrack right now.... even ubutnu 8.04 has problems. :(
kill x
Gawwad,  no problem ,, if you prefer LTS  then dont bother moving to this release,,
go to tty
he asked a Q as to what unity is. I answered.
is there any other mirror i can try?
So 10.4 is LTS but 11.4 is normal? But upgrading from 8.04 to 10.04 would work then?
why does everything need to be so cryptic in the linux world :/
hello
Yes.
Not really a safe solution, but it can do the trick :P
#ubuntu is the Ubuntu support channel, for all Ubuntu-related support questions. Please use #ubuntu-offtopic for other topics (though our !guidelines apply there too). Thanks!
No I prefer the newest :)
i'm seeding 11.04 by torrent :)
DeathKnight, I remember 8.04 as unusuable ;)
tty is safe olright
Is there a page that shows known problems with hardware for 11.04?
Incarus6, may i know why?
Thank for all the info, Pici, coz_ DJones! Bye
Gawwad,  yes and you can upgrade to 12.04  when it is release,, a direct upgrade from 10.4  ot 12.04
to
hi there how can I query that a given file belongs to which package?
Incarus6, or are you referring it is unusable now? :D
dpkg -S
how do i put something in a bash script that will run in parallel? for instance i have a script where i use mail to send a notice, but i don't want the parent script to get hung up with any problems
DeathKnight, no, 8.04 was unusable. I was using Debian at that time. It got better with 8.10
google. "&".
i want to be able to have the script exit but this mail task still be running if need be
in term of CHMOD, SUID and SGID what does it meens? >>>>> 7000 >> in need the letters??????
oh it's that simple?
found a fast mirror (university of kent)
can anyone give me a working link to download 64bit 11.04 ? the only link i get from my location is broken..
yes. #bash.
Incarus6, ok. i dont know.. the bt i am currently using is based on 8.10. performance is ok but KDE is bit irritating.
thanks rgr
!mirror
Unterbrechungen durch pkgProblemResolver::Resolve hervorgerufen; dies kÃ¶nnte durch gehaltene Pakete verursacht worden sein.'
using unknown version '/usr/bin/python2.7' (debian_defaults not up-to-date?)
erm, finding quite a few bugs with this new ubuntu... if I minamize things, where does it 'go'
saw this during my release-upgrade ^
Also most apps don't know how to install in the new 'launcher'
you're German?
rgr, correct. should I translate?
rgr, what ever it is if you or some dont like it do something about it, this isnt "ms"
what a fail unity
Looks like dependency issues from here.
its bettr of then shell
Is it possible to change the size of the dock unity?
at least for now
lugkhast:
srry
what are you ranting about? Whats ms got to to with it? I am a FOSS programmer.
Lungan:
rgr, yeah but Im not sure which package is causing that issue. Im installing ubuntu-desktop right now and hope that fixed it
hey guys, i'm installing ubuntu through FAI, and it's currently hanging on 'updating the system logo'
yess
it shows the logo, but doesn't proceed any further into boot
icon size in ccsm
any suggestions on how to debug it?
Lungan,   as I recal  I dont think so,, there were plans to have it able to move anywhere on the screen but I think that was not included either
coz_, Hmmm okey, there really is room for making the dock awesome in unity
it's better the classic desktop, i know you can choose but don't put it as default if you want to make linux popoular, it's a fail
hmm
huge debate
Lungan,   I agree,, but I prefer cairo dock :)
there
i thought i recalled a video on omg ubuntu where the left bar would disappear and only start appearing if you dragged your window near it. however i can't get it to disappear without maximizing my current window (a bad idea on a 24" monitor). any ideas?
coz_, Cairo? I will check that ou
rgr, Do you know a way to find out, which packages are "hold"
is ubuntu with Unity as a default called UUbuntu? Ubuntu by definition is a gnome distro.
yep autohide opts
Lungan,   cairo-dock    it should be in the repository
how do you get to them?
it is
coz_, okok brb
not anymore
i don't understand, ubunty has a community, why they choice to put unity as default?  i don't think the community agree to this
ubuntu is now a unity distro
they should create a new distribution gubuntu
Flynsarmy:
gubuntu?
in ccsm
No. They should leave it as it is and give a special name to the Unity distro.
lol
unity plugin
#ubuntu is the Ubuntu support channel, for all Ubuntu-related support questions. Please use #ubuntu-offtopic for other topics (though our !guidelines apply there too). Thanks!
compiz is beter den mutter
jatt,  a new version  named   GTR  will be available at some point.. not through canonical,, it is   ubuntu gnome remix,, with gnome3 as default
they ruin the good work of the last years inho
so disable unity if u dun like it
its ony a plugin
dob1, thats enough
we are discussing ubuntu issues. Unity is one such.
hi! is it possible to tell update-manager to download the packages for upgrading to natty now, and then use them to do the upgrade later?
rgr, wrong place for it.
not that ive seen
this channel is meant for ubuntu *support*, #ubuntu-offtopic is a good place to discuss unity
but maybe
the normal user, the one that try linux for the first time doesn't understant what is that unity, it doesn't know how to disable, it saw this = this is linux
Why is it that the people with the least to contribute are the ones that chuck around the ops threats and power the most. Everything was perfectly friendly.
ok guys honestly this new ubuntu layout is screwed... anyway i can go back to the old layout... I can't find jack shit this way, things just 'dissapere'
How can I found out which packages are "hold" (or locked?) ?
hello
given
lol i've been using ubuntu for many years and i didn't know how to disable unity until someone told me
does someone know a dyndns client for ubuntu on command line ?
i couldn't even figure out how to open the pidgin contact list - turns out its hidden away under the envelope icon
i don't get it, there was like a pool, a discussion about this,  how this come out?
hi
hi all
dynamic DNS (DDNS) update client implemented in Perl. In component universe, is optional. Version 2010.0301+gitdd160bd-2 (natty), package size 64 kB, installed size 288 kB
Flynsarmy, pidgin isn't the default IM software anymore
:)
i know but the bundled one is useless in every possible way
I have a second hard drive from OSX as my second drive and everything works but work let me write anything. I have tried alot to get the filepermissions fixed. The last thing is it says ivalid partion table
THANK YOU :)
wow, the Natty GUI is choppy as hell
wait until you try to alt+tab
phoque_uni, how can I go back to the old look
lol
phoque_uni,   out of curiosity,, which video card do you have ?
Flynsarmy, its the same in KDE, KDE doesn't want you to use any other instand messenger then Kopete
I'm looking forward to trying Unity more than ever now :-)
So I am in the middle of upgrading to 11.04 (so if I disappear for a few days.. ;) Debconf is asking me if I want to keep the old grub but wouldn't that leave no option for booting into 11.04?
Flynsarmy, narf_, I'm on Ubuntu Classic/Gnome
phoque_uni, nothing works, stuff just dissaperes
Guest31762, examine the partition table with gdisk
narf_,   log off  change session to  classic gnome
tx
kk
i would imagine so yes
I guess it is time to try out Natty...wish me luck
well i don't want to critic the work of other people, thanks for the work of ubuntu anyway, but just put this unity as an option not as default, that's all
coz_, ATI 4870
TheRedOctober, I still try to install Natty :D
I am guessing its asking me because it asks about any conf file..
phoque_uni,   ok  ,, I know too little about ati to be any use,,,
yeah that question is always asked
so if you don't want to go to natty, is it better to go back to 10.04?
that is the sentiment around the office as well...
yes 10.04 is LTS and proven
Should I try the merge.. lol j/k
bp0,  you can yes for sure since that is LTS
Hello, can you explain me what's that Unity?
if you want to play around then natty is ok
ok
unity is canonical's own desktop environment
vabigoon,    go to youtube.com    search for  ubuntu 11.0   or  ubuntu  Unity
it's a piece of software designed to get people outside more often
hey, i clicked upgrade to 11.04.. and desktop is broken
so you have now gnome, kde, xfce and unity
TheRedOctober, :D I got some strange dependency errors. tell me if you have some issues with the installation
looks like compiz is gone..
/etc/bash_completion.d <- is this new?
interesting, never noticed it before
anyone have contact with www.psubuntu.com 's moderators?
saml,   no compiz is the compositor for Unity
saml, wait, you pressed the button and the desktop was suddenly broken?
z0mbyk1d, within the last 3 years or so
great idea if it is what i think it is
lol ok
Incarus6, yah
new rsyslog.conf, i'll have to merge in my tweaks
#ubuntu is the Ubuntu support channel, for all Ubuntu-related support questions. Please use #ubuntu-offtopic for other topics (though our !guidelines apply there too). Thanks!
saml, you can try the comand line way
Ok, thank you, is that some Gnome modification or the completely new environment
looks like the upgrade is nearly done
z0mbyk1d, not sure when the /etc entry was introduced
and the left column thingy  is weird.. leaving marks  like when windows is frozen and you move window...
Hi, I just installed Ubuntu 11.04 except when I tried to boot into it I got given an error message saying that my hardware isn't supported and that I'll be shown the classic environment. I have an ATI 5850 graphics card with the latest FGLRX drivers installed so I'm not sure why it's causing this. Anyone have any ideas?
z0mbyk1d, you might consider installing etckeeper
vabigoon,  it is just a alternative   DE  environment ,, you can change it to classic gnome via sessions when you log in
completely new environment
is it an upgrade or a clean install?
khr0n0s, paste "/usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p"
Upgrade
downoloading torrent
I can't access ubuntu+1
 just guessing.. but i would think the fglrx driver is not working, or did not instal lproperly
drop shadows are not done by Compiz anymore?
smb.conf too
show differences is ugly as hell
remove the proprietary driver, reboot, install the proprietary driver and reboot, should be ok
and i can never interpret it
Cannot join #ubuntu+1 (Channel is invite only).
:/
thank you guys, So the next puzzle solved  ;D
anyone knows how to insert a second bar on top of the screen to have the regular applets that I had before?
on natty
 if the plugin is messing. it may be in the repso.
there are no applets in unity
It's just closed
natty has been released yay :D
phoque_uni,  they should be ,, but if you want to be sure go to #compiz-dev and ask  smspillaz  the main developer
how can I change workspace?
really?
Hi gang.  Anyone just downloaded 11.04 and want to express an opinion about it?  What about Unity?
yes
There isn't a +1 version yet, so the channel is closed
how come?
where to go
no applets no panels
how to upgrade?
ctrl+alt+cursors
Do any music players manage playlists on iPod's yet?
hi..
hi.
It will be open when oneiric opens.
unity_support_test gave  No such file or directory
ActionParsnip, don't work with 11.04
please tell me what I do to get it
how do I use unity in vmware?
DJones,  that channel will be availabe in about a week or 2
I already am on natty but not the latest
trying do upgrade to 11 i'm getting errors
then you will need to expand the number of desktops in ccsm
i want to have only one workspace
ccsm?
 servers may be overloaded right now.
The servers are overloaded.
the update failed outright, unable to calculate space (no exception or anything, just loudly failed)
install 'compizconfig-settings-manager' or 'simple-ccsm'. If you install the latter, a new option will appear in your appearance properties - See also !compiz - Help in #compiz
is there a support chan
yes, set the horizontal and vertical workplace value to 1
is there a support chan
compiz is gone
khr0n0s, uhm, and you got unity installed?
no it is not
I don't know about VMware, but I saw a guide for virtualbox.
 unity is running on top of compiz. and has compiz plugins..
I'll ask again, is there a way to upgrade without update-manager?
link me, omega
TheRedOctober, nice. can you paste /var/log/dist-upgrade/ files?
then you need to reinstate 3D accelleration
 at least it did last week when i was playing with it.
how to upgrade from beta to final release?
saml, think you are confusing with gnome3, unity does use compiz
thanks
LukasIgnat,   sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
sudo apt-get update; sudo apt-get -y upgrade
I just did a standard upgrade :S
ActionParsnip, how can I do that?
reinstate 3d acceleration
61 percent!
But it looks like unity-common wasn't installed...
kr0n0s, gnome or kde or something else?
what video chip are you using?
Khr0n0s whats the problem guys?
ActionParsnip, it is ATI
which model?
and I'm using Additional Drivers
saml whats the problem?
weird it didnt ask me about the postfix config which is definitely locally modified
DaSinge, please talk to #bash overloaded by 11.04 questions here
does that package handle upgrades?
ok
how can I find out my video chip?
khr0n0s, are you in gnome right now?
saml, lspci
hi
incarus6, yes
vibhav, desktop is funky. left column taskbar thingy is funky
 you could try rerunning the addationa-drivers tool
remove the driver, reboot, install the driver then reinstall the driver
vibhav, unity is saying my hardware isn't installed
you can use 'lshw -C display'
vibhav, sorry tired. *compatible
 * ToeKutter is downloading now... <panting in antisipation>
khr0n0s, That error tells you, that you can't use Unity. are you planning to use Unity?
ATI Technologies Inc Device 68a9
upgrading!
Khr0n0s refer to this to find about your video card b
incarus6, hopefully. Don't see how my hardware isn't compatible since I only bought the graphics card last year (ATI 5850)
that sucks.. this graphic gard is pretty good card
hi all, i installed Natty and now my bluetooth mighty mouse does not respond to clicks, scrolling works... any ideas?
thankfuly i still have display
ubuntu upgrade is always  a mess for graphics
vibhav, 5850 ATI
khr0n0s, Unity is a new desktop which isn't completly stable yet
hello i am trying to setup a home gateway/router, i am running ubuntu 10.04 server, i have 2 NICs eth1  dials PPPoE to mweb, and eth0 goes to a switch. I have setup DHCP on eth0 to dish out IPs to clients plugged into the switch.from the server i can ping out to internet locations, and i can also ping clients on the switch, from clients i can ping the server, however, from the clients i cant
after I upgrade will unity take over?
ping internet locations, ie i can't get past the gateway. what do i need to setup on the gateway/router server to allow clients to get outside?
Khr0n0s what does the prblem say?
euclid, don't upgrade
E:Error, pkgProblemResolver::Resolve generated breaks, this may be caused by held packages.?
"
why?
hi, which technology canonical uses to build ubuntu.com?
Hi guys, party on!
vibhav, It seems that you do not have the hardware required to run Unity. Please choose Ubuntu Classic at the login screen and you will be using the traditional environment.
Why Ubuntu torrent is so damn slow?
<Khr0n0s> what is the graphic card memory?
rcconf,  because a gazillion people are using it ?
!party
jubei_, do you have dnsmasq configured (NAT)
w00t! waiting on the reboot
rcconf allow more peers to be connected
 * z0mbyk1d crosses fingers
after I upgrade will unity take over?
 the torrent is quite quick here.
vibhav, 1GB. it's a mid/upper end graphics card
yes
may  I pm you?
hey
fuck
<euclid> yes
lol
euclid,  as long as your drivers are installed ,, yes
maxium peers is 60 here
<Khr0n0s> must be some bug.. lemme see
mind your language please.
sounds similar, thoug it is with keyboard
has anyone updated to 11.04 from repo yet?
it's not a client problem. i download other stuff at full speed
sorry
And no, you can pick which desktop envornment you want.
i like how it spawns a screen for the upgrade
fancy
 got 70 seeds and 300 peers here.
Hi everyone, could someone point me the mono icons guidelines please, I can't find them ?
rcconf it might be torrent spesific properties too
could you point me in the right direction? ie. read up about "dnsmasq" - read about "ip masquesrading" - read up about "routing table"
You can easily choose classic at the login screen to not use it
Pici, really?
Yes, really.
:)
50 peers
<evdvelde> try to post it in the ubuntu fourms
2.905 seeders
which web framework canonical uses to build ubuntu.com?
getting 1.4mb/sec on the torrent.
jubei_, assuming addresses on the eth0 subnet are not valid inet addresses (192.168.* or 10.10.*) you need to use NAT dnsmasq to allow the traffic to get back to them, you could have a route out, but nothing back in
you need to tell your server to do ip forwarding... change the 0 in /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward to a 1
is dapper out yet?
403kb/s damn slow
jubei_, JuJuBee asked for a pm i think
there isn't some channel dedicated to the gnome3 ppa, is there?
it's peers thing
How to convert an .ogv video to .avi?
 ffmpeg, mencoder,. or front ends to those apps
JuJuBee, i did that but it didnt allow the clients to get past the gateway
OfficiallyPC, use avidemux
ffmpeg can, but I find Handbrake to be more flexible
2mb/s
i have a network map with ip's on and such in jpg, could you suggest a place to upload and then u can see?
but it's very unstable
also did you change the value in /etc/sysctl.conf ?
Anyone know how to remove the little resize icon on each windows?
<OfficiallyPC>  Install WinFF from Ubuntu Software Center
JuJuBee, i changed it there and then did sysctl -p to restart it
jubei_, imgur
ok, what about iptables?
oh wow why is my latency so high in this server
do you have firewall rules preventing?
Hi everyone, could someone point me to the mono icons guidelines please, I can't find them ?
Guys, to download the new Ubuntu torrent, is it "ubuntu-11.04-alternate-i386.iso.torrent" or "ubuntu-11.04-desktop-i386.iso.torrent"?
 alternate is a text based installer.. eitehr can work
My computer is desktop, 32 bit, I use Alternate? ok
can i change unity?
thanks!
<victorhugo289> to upgrade use alternate CD to make a fresh install use desktop one
has anyone heard if any development on ubuntu for playstation 3 has resumed?
hey, in unity, how can I reduce number of workspaces?
I only need one workspace
saml, ccsm
3 mb/s now
I want to do a fresh Install
tu change unity !! logout and change on down screen
I use Desktop then?
Anyone know how to remove the little resize icon on the lower right on each windows?
hi , xubuntu 11.04 is not announced in distrowatch. Is it released?
#xubuntu
victorhugo289, yes and if the installer fails to boot try the alternate
Apparantly the Queen said to Kate Middleton, two things to remember, always wear a seatbelt and don't piss me off.
ok
no.. ccsm doesn't work... Win+n  does not negative window.. it opens dash board
rcconf what did you do to fix it?
jubei_, the tldp may have some good docs
I just upgraded to natty and I want to re-enable the world map in the time/date. How can I do that?
hi
which ubuntu should i install ?
stopped other torrents, limited upload speed to half, and changed number of peers
yeah i been reading tldp but they mostly out of date, and they are howto style - just tell you what to do no explaining what it does ... :(
how about 11.04
Hi
english%irc.freenode.com
ups
i think i need a basic-advanced networking type book
vibhav, thanks
see my pm
"ubuntu-11.04-desktop-i386.iso
saml No problem!
okay I have some kind of wireless issue. I cannot optain an ip from my router if I use wicd. if I use the network-manager no wireless networks show up. iwlist lists the wireless networks nonetheless.
and wicd does too
no i dont like  11.04
hi ererybody
.
#ubuntu-offtopic
Anyone know how to remove the little resize icon on the lower right on each windows?
 thats part of the theme i thought.
kl_ you using ubuntu 11.04
yes
has anyone completed an update to 11.04 from the repo?
kl_ you mean the resize handel>
ok
 ubuntu 11.04 released ?
is there away to see the communication between my wlan card and the router?
 servers may be overloaded at this time.
Ruuuumb0 yes
hinogi, ntop
yes.
Could be it it looks like a transparent triangle
Cool !
Hello. Question 1) There is a Russian? 2) Who collects the deb packages?
ok thanks
 that the window decorations theme part then.
Go to upgrade )
Пожалуйста посетите #ubuntu-ru для получения помощи на русском языке  / Pozhalujsta posetite /join #ubuntu-ru dlya polucheniya pomoshi na russkom yazyke
super easy installer.. sweet
have been having problems with any updates
then I'd need network connection first I guess
How do I move windows to another Desktop with unity?
you know how to remove it then?
kl_ change your theme perhaps
this is a very low-profile release on the ubuntu website.... you cannot find anything saying 11.04 Released
kl_ can you further explain?
thx captain
banished, click on the workspace switcher and drag them
can't I modify the theme?
anyone know how to configure ufw ?
why does ubuntu.com has a dell laptop that hides all the text?
on the lower right you see a triangle
where do i find all the preferences and settings in unity?
yes
does 11.4 includes gnome 3?
Pr070cal, gufw
kl_ You could make your own theme i imagine.
no
moshe_, I don't think so.
is there no more convenient way?
kl_ yes
moshe_, no, there is a ppa, but it breaks lots of stuff
why does ubuntu.com has a dell laptop that hides all the text?
ctrl+alt+shift+arrowkeys
banished, right click on the title bar and say move to... its still compiz so all the old gnome2 methods should work
Who here is engaged in building packages?
19 minutes letf!
19 minutes left!
It is probably a web site bug.  I can see it too.
you know where the theme files are located?
thanks
found it
  Not really. the gnome-look site has themnes you could look at and figure out how to modify.
I tend to just pick a simple theme and thats it.
arand, escott ok, I was hoping I could somehow just drag it to the other workspace instead of half maximizing it
you know the exact name for the size tingie?
Thx you.
<Incarus6> is it possible to get it though?
how do i access the equivalent of "system" at unity?
 nope.
hey all....having a problem with front panel audio, if i start audio it everything defaults to rear panel however if i run aplay /some/audio.wav and start another track durring the aplay it goes to the front panel, any tips?
 other then 'resize handel' perhaps
Through the shutdown menu
moshe_, yes, over ppa's, escott said that
thx
well
how to know which OS I am using exactly ?
uname -a doesn't tell me really :P
i tried ufw, but im having problems denying all out and in then allow 80 out
lsb_release -a
Pr070cal, have you tried gufw gui
it's not ubuntu, so says command not found
And you're asking for support in #ubuntu?
<Incarus6> thank you very much for your time sir.
Pr070cal,  why are you denying out?
not sure where to ask, well will move on to #linux then :)
thanks anyway
moshe_, your welcome
 if it follows the standards   lsb_release -1
 if it follows the standards   lsb_release -a I mean...
command not found
hello everyone
there is no separate netbook release. I'll see about getting that link fixed though.
lsb_release and uname are the first things I try :)
can i get back to gnome?
 time to start digging in etc then  i guess.
so its restictive setup like i had firestarter
chchatzop, ubuntu classic/gnome classic from the gdm login screen
thanks
i dont want data sent out unless i allow it
no love for unity
does the ubuntu installer support pre-configured mdadm raid arrays?
Pr070cal, make sure you are adding your related, established rules
can anyone help? upgrade from 10.10 to 11.04 now just boots to an ubuntu logo and 5 red dots and doesn't go any further? virtualbox 4.0.6 on windows host
centos 5.5
didnt like it
is upgrading
boot in recovery mode to see where the problem is
i deny out to all and allow 80 but it doesnt work
any details on how to do that? is there a key combo or something?
Pr070cal, dont forget that connections use random source port
Somehow natty doesnt like my notebook. Native resolution is 1280x800, but Natty only allows me to choose 1024x768 (the rest is simply cropped). VGA is an integrated intel mobile gm965/gl960. Liveusb and a clean install gives the same result... What to do?
prey
jnye it asks you at boot, in the grub menu, if you cant see the grub menu press ESC
 I need to establish logging the events from the network via rsyslog, I had already added appropriate lines into rsyslog.conf, by these lines I mean the line which loads the module listing on the tcp port and added my own ruleset to it
but it does not work
hey all....having a problem with front panel audio, if i start audio it everything defaults to rear panel however if i run aplay /some/audio.wav and start another track durring the aplay it goes to the front panel, any tips?
well ntop only works with established network connection but I don't get there with my wlan thats why I need a monitor that showes me why I don't get a connection
how can i install gnome 3? (and gnome-shell)? just via ppa?
thanks. not that I'd be needing a netbook version, but I just happened to notice that there's a mistake.
packet sniffing
Sure. Thanks for letting us know.
AAAAAAAAAAAGHAHA.. i cant upgrade
Pr070cal, you could also try logging the connection drops to debunk where they are getting dropped
Pici, if upgrade fails, do you recommend to fix it or a fresh installation?
hinogi, sorry didn't realize you meant montior MODE
sam-_-, yes
Pici I recommend a fresh install
how did it fail?
Just me having problems installing the new ubuntu? Booting from cd?
anyone else having problems with broadcom wireless and ubuntu 11.04?
why didn't they include gnome 3? i thought it's stable
ciao
E:Error, pkgProblemResolver::Resolve generated breaks, this may be caused by held packages."
Hey guys is there a way when using the cp command to see what the transfer speed is going at or a status on the file being compied?
!list
This is not a file sharing channel (or network); be sure to read the channel topic. If you're looking for information about me, type « /msg ubottu !bot ». If you're looking for a channel, see « /msg ubottu !alis ».
I think we can debug that
hve u tried updating it? i have always had issues with broadcom addaptors, but there is an installer
I don't think the upgrade started yet
ChogyDan, ok, thank you. It could be related with xorg
anyone want to say what they think of 11.04?  What about Unity?
well there aren't many updates on release day :P
did you use the xorg ppa?
Someone really needs to complain to Citylink about how terrible the NZ Repo has been for the last 5 years
because gnome3 is not better than unity
(Not an exaggeration)
that's not the reason
try plugging using a wired network
i believe it wasn't stable in time for the freeze, or something
I did but there aren't any updates
well that's apple and oranges. i didn't say so. i just want to know why they didn't include it.
ah. that makes sense
well if not, you need to pastebin some of the files from /var/log/dist-upgrade I believe, so we can take a look
hey all....having a problem with front panel audio, if i start audio it everything defaults to rear panel however if i run aplay /some/audio.wav and start another track durring the aplay it goes to the front panel, any tips on how to toggle between front and back panel only?
System > Administration > Hardware/Additional Drivers
ChogyDan, I can't figure out which package exactly is causing that problem, otherwise I could fix  it
3 minutes remaining
I had a lot of problems and when I was updating to 11.04 something messed up and everything broke and I couldnt get anything to work. So i deleted it and reinstalled 10.04...now I can't get my computer to recognize my wireless internet card. Its a BCM4311 and I know how to set it up, but it won't even see it under lspci?
I have the STA drivers enabled riktking
do a clean install of natty instead :)
ok ... running 11.04 ... the menu is the immediate issue here ... how do you edit it???
which menu?
ActionParsnip, Is there a reason my computer won't recognize my wireless card anymore?
sorry mate im out
 sudo lshw -C network
the main menu ... when you click on the Ubuntu icon
<zetheroo> can you explain the problem a little bit more?
I have an issue, can anyone help? the laptop screen of my ubuntu 11.04 is blank, it's recognised, but it just won't do anything.
an external screen works.
I think it just uses the files in /usr/share/applications
I would start at the top, see if you can remove xserver-xorg-video-8
<niels1> explain a liitle bit more
ActionParsnip, Nope, just my direct connection
I just want to re-arrange the menu items ...
niels1, intel graphics?
and how do you clear the recent files?
ooh try sudo apt-get install b43-fwcutter
When I look at the monitor settings, the screen is there, and when I change desktop it's there, but it doesn't display anything
bakanub definately intel graphics.
this menu has added confusion and more clicks to what was before it :(
  nomodeset     If you use an nvidia/ati video chip then install the proprietary driver and it should be enableable
why is 11.04 LTS a different install option from 11.04?
virtual packages coudln't be removed
actually, Im not sure
11.04 isn't LTS
there is no 11.04 LTS
<jdahm> there is no 11.04 LTS
how do I do that, ActionParsnip?
what he said
oh, sorry, read it wrong
that is 10.04 still
<jdahm> 11.10 will be LTS
Are the Ubuntu servers getting slammed?
what video chip are you using?
no, 12.04 will
vibhav, NO
ok
without being able to customise the main menu this is not going to work for me
ChogyDan, I read it could be related with the gnome-desktop package, im trying to install that (so I have to downgrade Firefox 4 because of dependencys)
an Intel video chip, ActionParnsip
ActionParsnip, I had to partition everything myself when reinstalling because 11.04 was on there and i had to delete that and format the partition, I set the mount point at / for 10.04, would that mess anything up?
 they always do on release day and for about a week after
Max / Min on the left top? argh.. how to move that back to Right side?
can't see that being an issue
is there a difference between gtk theme and metacity theme you know?
how long that uasdthe new release of the ubuntu just came to us?
wish me best of luck
 metacity is window decoration
is there a switch to turn the wifi off and on
hello
what does that mean? -- terminal and type !controls ?
oh. :(
wish me best of luck! PLease!!
d/topic
 ! is a BOT command.. read what ubottu told you
ActionParsnip, there is a button on the laptop, but ive hit it several times and nothing ;/
Is there a list of ubuntu mirrors I can dump in apt/sources.list as gb.archive.ubuntu.com normally gives me 80MBytes/sec on my servers and I'm getting 20kbytes/sec now due to the load from natty
how does one upgrade from Ubuntu Desktop Natty Beta 2 --> Ubuntu Desktop Natty
what is the best bittorent client under ubuntu?
read what.. hmm not so helpful
Toph, deluge
thanks
 depends on your needs.
or rtorrent for terminal
depends when you last updated the OS
what about term.log?
deluge is my opinion as well :)
you around ?
...still have no clue what to do with my blank screen...
 theres fromt ends to change the controlls back,. or theres some command you cut/paste to move them back. I use Ubuntu-tweak to handle it.
last updated Beta 2
deluge has a cli interface as well
Yup
a week ago
is there any way to see all of the changes I have made to /etc files?
I love how the community page recommends 64 bit but the main download page recommends 32 bit
how long just the new version of ubuntu is released?
Toph, not sure if it is true.... but i have experienced more bandwidht in transmission than in deluge.
ChogyDan, empty
there is no single best application for any one situation in any OS
what file was it that you posted?
 use the one included by default then. it does the job.
Toph, if new.. then transmission will be ok.
ChogyDan, apt.log
so is there no way to edit the menu?
hi I tried to install ubuntu using wubi, but got this error
best is an opinion based on needs and tastes, why not try a few yourselfand use what YOU think is best
u'E:\\ubuntu\\install\\ubuntu-10.04.2-desktop-amd64.iso'
are there any other files?
does ubuntu 11.04 normal download has wubi installer in it...????
is there a requirment to upgrade from beta 2'
ChogyDan, yes, main.log
did you MD5 test the ISO you downloaded
sorry,, I hadn't noticed Transmission already installed
wish me best of luck in install 11.04!
when you install upgrades you will be on the stable release
no
transmission has been a default app for... ? a while... a long while
can I see that?
gl vibhav
ok i am on beta
<ActionParsnip> thanks
ActionParsnip, nope, no wireless card was detected
then how do you know it was consistent or complete?
ChogyDan, it got just 7 lines, nothing important
 upgradeing today may be slow - due to server load.
ActionParsnip, Maybe i will download natty onto a cd and perform a clean install and try again ugh
and that's in a Lucid install
maverick said i can upgtrade, beta 2 said nothung;'
ActionParsnip, yes lucid, it has always worked before also
do i do dist-upgrade
very strange
in beta 2
you should be able to.
hey guys, does anyone know how long that we just have the new version of UBUNTU?? (ubuntu 11.4)
cholo sudo apt-get update, sudo apt-get upgrade ,. perhaps sudo apt-get dist-upgrade    done...
ok
it made a logfile where this error is mentioned. Also, I just ran the installer from website, did not download an ISO image.
ActionParsnip, yep, maybe this button needs to be pressed on startup or something, ill mess around with it ;) Thanks anyways
upgrade or dist-uprade from beta2 and you will have the stable releasae
 that made no sence.. rephrase the question.
outstanding
sudo apt-dist upgrade
i have been using each alpha and beta.
I take it the torrents will be faster if I want to completly reinstall..?
without knowing if the image you have is good, you are wasting your time
i spoke with gnome2 developers at MIT last week
it's 11.04   and it will be supported for 18mo
 for downloading the iso's right now. toirrents are real fast.
er, gnome3 developers, last week
how come my intel laptop screen is just turned off? and how do I turn it on?
hmm, ok. Can you suggest proper way of installation?
How do you guys like unity? I know I will have to try it myself, just wanting to get opinions
with tablet pc's)
today they just released the new version of 11.4? do u know when exactly?
its a great shell.
Ubuntu bug 648180 in unity (Ubuntu) "Unity sucks" [Undecided,Opinion]
why do you need opinions? Do you want to  be told what to thhink?
niels1, more details?
ChogyDan, any Idea how to compare the installed versions with the repo versions and how to downgrade the packages?
 you mean the time? No idea.. donrt really care or pay attention to it.
its called "Theme". I found it. thanks noone
it'sok. I suggest you install it and use it, you can always remove it
apt-cache policy <package>
ToeKutter, your welcome
then +ban list in #ubuntu is quite facist.
Of course not I like to try out new things just wanted opinions
who the hell said I want to be told what to think
the scree is just turned of, like Ubuntu thinks it's closed or someting, it's just recognised, but switched of. Avasz
BCM4318, 10.10 on another partition works just fine.
Anyone here using a Hewlett-Packard Deskjet 2000 with Ubuntu?  I'm thinking of buying one for my Ubuntu box and I want to know if it'll work well
ChogyDan, and for several / all packages?
:-)
I honestly love gnome 3, but its always fun to try out new things
it smells the same
why doesn't ubuntu push bittorrents more?
they do
it is far easier to download
Hey, regarding your blank laptop screen + intel gpu.. there is some magic kernel option which I entered in grub on my moms laptop, at least for 10.04.
its a small download and easy to remove, try it and youo might like it
maybe just try aptitude full-upgrade       and see what it reports
we do...
IncognitoMan...how are you trying to connect...via command line?
its great to download.
or you might hate it
does anyone know how to contact someone from the canonical shop?
adapter not found after booting (needs extra service restart) and bluetooth mouse moving and scrolling but not clicking... your help is appreciated!
ChogyDan, I tried that before, nothing happens (Im currently install ubuntu-desktop)
and how do I do that, misse-?
*installing
I don't see it on the main page.  I had to go to "alternative downloads".  Is that right?
How's 11.04? :)
I'm dlownloading it via torrent now
niels1, laptop or desktop?
well... we push it on IRC, at least.
Avasz laptop
Of course I have many boxes to try it on, just wanted to see what people here thought. From most reviews ive read people hate it. again trying it out is not the problem for me.
been fine here for months
torrent download is fast :D
Cool. I'll be torrenting it soon
MK``, it could be great, if you are able to install it ;)
Somehow natty doesnt like my notebook. Native resolution is 1280x800, but Natty only allows me to choose 1024x768 (the rest is simply cropped). VGA is an integrated intel mobile gm965/gl960. Liveusb and a clean install gives the same result. Tried nomodeset - helped with the resolution, but lost unity
niels1, sleep?
yeah, Im not sure.  I also like to run `sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop^`  with the ^
hmmmm does anyone knows where is the Adobe AIR 2 package ????
dist-upgrade is not required
is it correct? sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
?
bakanub, does that issue only appear in unity?
lots of seeders ;)
sorry, is not working
ChogyDan, with the ^?
I probably won't upgrade just yet but I'll seed the torrent
yes
what u mean, sleep? It's working now, I'm actually chatting to you on my laptop using an external screen Avasz.
if you choose unity can you switch to gnome 2  at gdm ?
ActionParsnip...I usually seed for a few weeks when I've downloaded :)
I'm probably switching to
I do want to upgrade however as the new kernel fixes a hardware bug for me
eh sorry one sec
Incarus6 the problem only is with 11.04. 10.10 worked out of the box
niels1, oh.. you mean you have connected an external monitor?
you around
?
gnome 2 is the classic desktoip in the gdm menuis
I'm probably switching to ubuntu because everyone at work runs it :P  (instead of arch)
yes
I swear I've never seen this channel so busy
jdahm, Arch users here too
its one seed I always keep, Everything else I give 1 back. I also have a tiny text doc from a snes rom file to show idiots that ratio is worthless
bakanub, yes, 10.10 wasnt using unity by default. you used gnome before, right?
 typical release day. happens every 6 mo. :)
<Monotoko> IncognitoMan...how are you trying to connect...via command line? --> pretty much
i recommend using !metalink myself
how do i update from 11.04 beta to the official release?
ChogyDan, one minute ;)
its my dc pc server setup
Already answered yes the first time...
does anyone knows where is the Adobe AIR 2 package ????
yeah, and that one works, Avasz, but the laptop screen itself is blank (but recognised, and configured in "monitors" settings) disconnecting my external doesn't help.
im running slack 13.37
dreamcast -> pc -> eth
niels1, then.. there are some shortcut keys in your laptop to have dual screen... mine is fn+f7. not sure what its in yours.
 if you update normally.. it will do that.
Incarus6, yes
yellow7, sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
just do a normal update
what do you mean?
Unity doesnt run in VMWare... blah..
niels1, but dont try that combination without being sure.
ActionParsnip...any idea how I seed it from this computer when I install natty?
ActionParsnip, I got it working now ;D I booted into windows, turned the wireless on, then booted back into linux and it worked.
 try the unity-2d desktop then.
Avasz, it is in dual screen mode, my laptop actually tinks it's on, it just isn't.
Gnome3 does not run in VMWare on Fedora Beta and Ubuntu Beta
Dr-Willis - what do I need to do for that?
Its not Unity.
do i need to change any sources for upgrading beta2 to official release
*sigh*
 install the proper package I guess.. ive just read about the unity-2d stuff using qt.
you could add the torrent and get the file created, then kill the app and replace the partial file with the completed file, you will then seed it
k. ill snoop around
Wow 11.04 released
 no you do not.
niels1, try some combination with fn.. and function keys with monitor type pic on it.
ActionParsnip...that's what I was thinking, thanks :)
any tried it? hows it?
 if you installed/used beta. the normal update/upgrade/dist-upgrade will update you to the filnal release.
Can someone tell me what the difference between update-manager and sudo apt-get update is? when i run the apt-get command it just says done, but when i use update-manager it has tons of stuff that i need to update
!final
If you install a development version of Ubuntu Natty and keep up with package updates, then you will be upgraded to the official release of 11.04 when it comes out. To make sure, type « sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade » in a console.
hi guys! i need some sort of linux app that helps me shrink 3MB jpegs to 150KB jepegs, any ideas please?
cool, I suggest you go into device manager and tell windows to not allow the device to wake up the OS, and disable power management on it
i dont see any notifications for Final Release
when i do dist-upgrade and re-check via Update Manager GUI
Dr Willis - its in Software center
remoteCTRL1, gimp
should i select the source "proposed Natty"
 perhaps there is no update that 'final' is out.. since it just sees it as a set of normal uypdate dpackages.
"Unity 2D Panel"
I guess you have it then
cholo, dist-upgrade wont show release notifications, try "update-manager"
erm... maybe smothing that does not require an academical title...?
I don't think it shows a release notification
try update-manager -c
just a lot of packages
lol, bug, enabling sync to vblank results in epic slowness
-c right?
cholo, did you use the beta version before?
it did when I was testing 10.10
dddYeah
hmm...
Brb, I just farted out a butt turd
hows 11.04,
 * IncognitoMan scratches head
hmm
cholo, so its updating like normal package updates, not like a release upgrade
Avasz that doesn't do anything besides freezing the one I have...
I have used Alpha nd Beta etc..
 so you proberly are updated then
!metalink > jdahm    (jdahm, see the private message from ubottu)
I am on Beta2
Hmmph
adapter not found after booting (needs extra service restart) and bluetooth mouse moving and scrolling but not clicking... your help is appreciated!
ChogyDan, should I retry to upgrade after that command (which I didnt run yet)
I tried an update, didn't get many updates at all.. like 700kb
do you think it has changed a bunch?
do sudo killall bluetoothd ; bluetoothd
cholo, go to "Help" then "About"
i think this bug will get fixed soon.
I always face grub problem when Win 7 and Ubuntu dual boot
Monotoko:.
I think
and see if it says anything about Beta
If you install a development version of Ubuntu Natty and keep up with package updates, then you will be upgraded to the official release of 11.04 when it comes out. To make sure, type « sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade » in a console.
ok
see it.  Thanks
on restarting the service (/etc/init.d/bluetooth restart) adapter is found, but the mouse acts strangely
any solution
thanks arand
Ubuntu_user, need more information
Didn't find any upgrades, suppose my system is up-to-date
yeah there should be some changes via PPA
Hi!
i had some issues with Broadcom 2.0's
so i just have to pray and wait for updates? :)
what about the energy consumption of memory? say, running latexila uses only 5,7 MB, the same docs in gedit take 47,5 MB, however. is there a difference in the energy software "consumes"?
(which is unacceptable)
Upgraded 10.10 to 11.04. Screen was black on reboot. Downloaded the new 11.04 iso to clean install. Installer is too dim on monitor (new laptop) to install. Is there a solution?
no, just look for a patch/fix
been looking, the kernel with patch failed as well
Use the function key + Fx key
 it is not a kernel issue.
Fx key?
 Yep when i install both together in different drives I face this problem. As soon as i start windows and restart the computer it shows me black screen written that grub found no operating system and so on
i think it is a userspace patch
flo not really it still gets clocked regularly
"If you have been keeping up-to-date via the update manager, you automatically have the latest version, the Release Candidate. To do it via the command line, just enter"
Ubuntu Natty repos seem so slow.... 99kbps downloads ugh
hmm
bkerensa, it will be
change the source
i have installed an application (adobe AIR) that is only supported on 32 bit ubuntu. now i've noticed that there is no sound in *.air applications. is there any way I could check if there is some i386 sound library that is missing?
im getting 20mb/sec eh
bkerensa, many people are updating now perhaps
silly question.. how do i move the new launcher to the right hand side of the screen?
kb/sec i mean lol
i use use an Internet2 downloader
great when trying the new ubuntu the screen goes so dim i cant see it :(
hi. since yesterday I don't have a pidgin indicator in the messaging menu. How can I re-enable it?
 thats too good
bkerensa, change repos to a local server instead of the general server
do they have torrent repos..?
use ubuntu.media.mit.edu/ubuntu
you cannot
Ubuntu_user, so grub loads but can't chainload windows? or after a windows boot grub can't load anything
Ubuntu_user, I meant kb/sec
they do not have torrent repos
I'm not very familiar with the new upstart manager, but I needed to have a job running after each time mysql is restarted. I've added the script path to /etc/init/mysql.conf on the post-start script part but it didn't work. Any hints?
damn :(
you cannot hide it either
Has anyone tried Classic Session on Natty? I dont wanna use the Unity Integrated menus.
 ohhh sudden
congrats on the new ubuntu, seems like a great release!
Classic will be phased out next 11.11 release
has anyone here successfully upgraded from 10.10 using do-release-upgrade
 i think windows does something
that's anonying.. i'm on a dual screen setup with virtualbox on the right.. i can't get the launcher to pop up easily since my mouse moves to the other monitor
Are you kidding me?
cholo, why is that?
could anyone tell me what the state of softraid is in 11.04, I think the docs I am reading are out of date
So they are forcing people to use integrated menus
gnome to be phased out?
the touchpad gives a lot of problems when for example wanting to select things
cholo is just trolling folks
I predict a GNOME 3 Gubuntu derivative around the time of the next release.
I don't use menus (I use hotkeys like CTRL ALT F for firefox).  Is there any point for me to go 11.04?
That decision is not finalised, but expected I think.
owdy folks
can I use my keychain if I copy my ~ directory to a new/old Ubuntu install?
Is any body using Ubuntu with Windows 7
unity on netbook, what say you?
hi. since yesterday I don't have a pidgin indicator in the messaging menu. How can I re-enable it? I've been using natty since beta
Yeah Ubuntu_user
it's very jumpy. have been looking for solutions again but honestly ive tried so many things from synaptics that im pretty confused :)
Hello. I'm writing an upgrade guide and do-release-upgrade failed with some errors/asked me to report it as a bug. I can do that, but I was wondering if there are any compelling reasons not to have people mangle sources.list manually and do it the old fashioned way to get around this
Ubuntu_user...XP and Ubuntu, whats up?
Ubuntu_user, I have my computer partitioned with windows 7 and ubuntu
same ^
Ubuntu_user, you need to better explain your problem i dont understand what you are saying is happening
libpolkit-gtk-1-0 (< 0.99) aber 0.96-2ubuntu4 soll installiert werden" sry ik its german, should i translate?
i find it is not easy to upgrade to natty
Monotoko  brianl  are you guys using full install or install inside windows
terminated by itself twice
what command is that from?
Well if they remove the Classic Session option from Natty I will have to go back to Maverick
Did you have the same problem? :S
 Okay I tell it
full install Ubuntu_user, separate partitions using the LiveCD
Ubuntu_user..full install
same problem?
I did a full install from boot off the cd, completely separate from windows
See what I said above haha
escott, what's clocking?
ChogyDan, "sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop^"
jnye yeah it as also a lot of issues with dual monitors stuff too
you have the same problem too?
could anybody please tell me where I can find an md5sum for the 11.04 desktop image listed on the website?
have you got the solution?
thanks
I do not like this integrated menus stuff.... It reminds me when MS added the crayola crayon of a taskbar to XP
Nope :(
 So Win 7 don't create any problems with booting
have you got any idea from the room?
has anyone run apt-get dist-upgrade and had problems?
do-release-upgrade does that and disables PPAs etc. in addition, it also creates opens SSH for recovery purposes I think, but in essence yes, editing sources is fully possible, but you have to know what you're doing, obviously...
is that the only error?  or just the last?
ChogyDan, the only error
nope, works fine. Although, after I installed ubuntu, the final character of all the passwords of user accounts on windows 7 were cut off, *no idea* how that occured.
i use do-release-upgrade
Ubuntu_user...I have done some Ubuntu/Win 7 installs...what's the issue? If you install Win7 first, then shrink the parition from the live CD and install from there it's usually okay (Windows 7 may need a disk check)
Anyone figure out how I can make the app launcher in Unity NOT auto-hide?! I'm so sick of having to open it every time I wanna switch applications.
ChogyDan, lets ignore that. Im restarting the upgrade thing
I'm looking for information on the current state of software raid in ubuntu, is it on par with rhel yet?
also, alt-tabbing between programs doesn't work anymore. :S
ok, can you translate for me?  :)
Is the CD bug fixed??
i think natty should be renamed to nasty
hehe
So if they remove Classic from Natty will there be a solid workaround to scrap Unity for Gnome 2
shetlandpony, clocking
?,
libpolkit-gtk-1-0 (< 0.99) but 0.96-2ubuntu4 should be installed"
classic is part of natty already
Okay so doing it that way isn't going to break 349805 things or anything unless of course someone messes it up? :P
this is the first time i fail upgrade with ubuntu
! clock
! clocking
does anyone know how i can use a mirror for upgrading to natty? this is slooooow
!clock
Yeah but apparently they plan to remove the Classic option in future releases and force Unity
flo, ?
!clock
flo system clock is generating signals to dram at X megahertz. don't think dram knows it is empty so it always refreshes
ie no change in energy usage with memory usage
all mirrors will be "slooooow", it's release day. Think about it
Please, help me to upgrade distro from lucid
you could try aptitude upgrade libpolkit-gobject-1-0        see what options it gives
I have ubuntu based distro
Okay guys I'm thinking of buying a HP Deskjet 2000 for Ubuntu so I can print out color-coded source code using gedit.  Any last thoughts before I plonk the money down?
ActionParsnip, yes, but wouldn't at least one of them be less slow?
Update manager from gnome just don't show new releases
you will either need to upgrade to maverick, then to natty OR do a clean install of natty
Or if you have a really messy system with lots of additional repositories which messes things up, it should be fine otherwise yes, but the other methid is the recommended one, obviously.
escott, i think i understand. so energy saving is a little difficult with the pc turned on, isn't it? (except for the screen, perhaps)
ah
ChogyDan, nothing. nothing to install, nothing to fix, ...
I checked to show only lts releases
Is it possible?
ChogyDan, let me try the upgrade
u can use do-release-upgrade
unity is the FAIL
i'd say they will ALL be slow as a LOT of users are upgrading. If you torrent the alternate natty ISO you can do an offline upgrade but you will then need to upgrade natty to the latest packages which will take more time
flo various components can be turned off/spun down. the chip can run slower the harddrives spun down, you may be able to turn off your network card etc, but not ram usage. install powertop it can optimize for battery life
Yeah but apparently they plan to remove the Classic option in future releases and force Unity
did you get my last message? and if so did you answer it? ( its starting to become hard to catch up lol )
does anyone in here boot from a softraid 1 or 10 with ubuntu?
ActionParsnip, they should set up a torrent-based apt
you need to change it so it will show "normal" releases
Ubuntu_user, win 7 doesn't like being messed with
true, I use apt-fast, it's sweeet
ok, go for it.  but maybe libpolkit-gtk-1-0 is the problem package
So I started the Ubuntu install CD, pressed "try ubuntu" and nothing happened
ActionParsnip, wtf is that? *googles*
Is that a bad sign?
Awesome, thanks!
 what i researched, i found that win 7 creates problem with grub
Ubuntu_user, did you shrink win7 and move the start of the partition, or just shrink it and keep the start of the partition where it was
Natty, 11.04 i386 desktop.iso I have been seeding it for 2:47 and the hashs don't agree.
i have a question . i am currently running windows 7 and ubuntu 10.10 in a dual boot system and i would very much like to reinstall ubuntu 11.04 over the current ubuntu i`m running without messing up my MBR or the GRUB ... can someone tell me how can this be done ?
pigdad...what do you mean by "nothing happened"?
I never had it mess with my grub installation.
ChogyDan, yeah that could be, but apt-get install -f doesnt show up any dependency errors
yeah, thanks
pigdad, did you do this in a other os?
It stalled for a long while and just continued showing the window
!powertop
Strange, that it needs special actions in command line
I should specify. This is booted into the CD.
Did you check your iso for integrity?
Hm, I'll do that once I reboot
while, just reinstall, it should just put the newer grub on top of the old one. if you need to backup your grub.conf do that prior to the install and then you can merge you special config back in
pigdad...can you move around the menu beforehand?
if so go to "check CD"
I just shrinked my second drive D:/  to a new partition of 50 GB, then divided it into 3 partitions
escott, thank you i just needed a confirmation
or whatever it says
Hmmm Why can't I get into ubuntu+1?
how do I customise all the things that unity messed up without asking me? (navbar on top instead of bottom, app launcher set to auto-hide, etc)
or is 11.04 final already
?
I'm going insane here
because Natty is out, so the channel has been closed
The menu didn't show up. I opened a terminal window by switching to a VT and running gnome-terminal
Ok
yes
Then I'll ask here.
 * Incarus6 thinks 11.04 is much more important then a royal wedding
Ubuntu_user, i don't have any problems with the config now, but but i did have numerous assorted problems that required multiple restores of win7 and reinstalls of ubuntu
 you lucky one, google it millions out there facing this problem
pigdad...so you get as far as X opening?
But yeah, I'll check the disk for integrity. I torrented the iso so chances are it's OK, but maybe it burned wrong
Has Xorg dropped the use of /etc/X11/xorg.conf altogether? and I don't mean the change made long ago whereas it was optional, I mean wether it has stopped considering it compeltely
Incarus6, +3
Correct
X opened, and stuff runs correctly, the shell just didn't load
who knows.  It might be their goal, but it is best to wait till after the UDS
pigdad...you should be able to check the logs to see what went wrong
Are there 3 drivers available for ati/amd-cards? the default "radeon" driver, fglrx and the catalyst driver?
Spotted a bug in the 11.04 disk partition part of the installer. No longer lets you type a mount point. You can only select from the drop-down list of options.
Lars_G, pretty much, you can still create one but xorg is mostly autoconfiged these days
yeah :( you can probably fix grub with a liveCD, these guys can help, I am not an expert
No mini iso yet for 11.04 but it looks like the rest is there
WHen you restored win7, you also needed to reinstall ubuntu?
 i am not able to get a solution
wanna bet
anyone have issues running vmware player/workstation after the upgrade?
usr13...you will need to reinstall GRUB
because Windows will use its bootloader
usr13, all I had was a restore image, not an install disk, it would blow away the entire partition table
but not Ubuntu itself
Oh yea, I  know.
I created one long ago, to setup my synaptics touchpad, but since the last update in +1 to final (I guess it's final now), I can't use the mouse and synclient says the driver's not even installed
is there a configuration backup for compiz after upgrade?
So I'm thinking xorg is ignoring the file.
which drivers are available for ati-cards?
 but it will become a daily issue to fix grub each time u run window
How can I change repos when doing a natty upgrade so the download process if faster
check /var/log/Xorg.0.log
Lars_G, it shouldn't ignore the file, check your /var/log/Xorg.0.log
I didn't think win7 would re-quire you to re-partition the HD?  (But I don't know for sure...)
There's no mention to the driver on the log at all
where are the iso's md5sums
how do you mean?
!hashes
Lars_G, try reinstalling it
I'm not very familiar with the new upstart manager, but I needed to have a job running after each time mysql is restarted. I've added the script path to /etc/init/mysql.conf on the post-start script part but it didn't work. Any hints?
Thanx AP
what is "..a Qt-based implementation.." mean ?
usr13, if you restore a backup image the entire disk gets restored
are there more than 2 drivers available for ati-cards?
Though, it does say it's reading xorg.conf in the log
the 11.04 hashes are not there
Lars_G, the synaptics driver that is
I will
Ubuntu_user, what are your win7 reinstall options
I had my configured Compiz and with the upgrade Ubuntu basically trashed all the configuration I had
Since I see no error even in the log
unity doesn't use compiz
!ActionParsnip - that iso is not the current build. I dowloaded it a week ago and its the same one and the datestamp is 21April
I am only a bot, please don't think I'm intelligent :)
please explain
I am not on Unity
escott, thank you! that's a point to start from. just browsed a bit through ubuntusers.de on those energy-saving hints.
someone please help me, I'm going insane with unity. how do I change that the app-launcher on the left is NOT auto-hide but constantly visible so it doesn't take me ages to switch between apps. also, how do I enable alt-tabbing between apps, and how -- for the love of god -- do I customise the top navbar (the part with the time etc in it)
Oh, I see.
ActionParsnip, I checked the link you graciously gave...It hasn't been updated. :-( No hash for Natty
anyone have issues running vmware player/workstation after the upgrade?
I'll see if I can update it
I get the feeling today is going to be a busy day.
Unity uses compiz.
Auto-hiding can be disabled through CCSM
hello, is dangerous upgrade kubuntu maveric to natty?
Trying to install 11.04 from DVD, installer is too dim to read. Laptop screen dim function keys do not do anything. Is there a way to boot the installer in to some sort of safe graphical mode?
 what windows 7 install options?
Also, moving your mouse to the top-left corner instantly shows the left dock
ScreenIssues, you may be better off using the alternate install disk.
I'll give that a go
That's a text based installer, it could be that the live disk does not fully support the backlight control on your computer.
I'm getting a segfault when installing nspluginwrapper on natty amd64. is there a way around this? flashplugin_installer won't install until nspluginwrapper is completely installed
alternate CD is the non-gui one.
Is there an official download of 11.04 2d?
Ubuntu_user, well there are lots of ways Win7 can get broken. bootloader which might be fixable with the windows 7 rescue disk (you can download that). or Win7 can start thinking that there is some kind of hardware change and get stuck on PnP during boot. and a thousand other things, so I just kept reinstalling Win7 from my backup image on a USB drive until I managed to somehow not break it. took a couple attempts, but I found that wh
ile I could safely resize the ntfs partition I could not then move it
yes, its out
please help
2d?
KM0201, but 2d in particular?
arand, unity 2d
cannot start vuze in ubuntu
but what annoys me deeply is that first I have to navigate the pointer to the top-left, then the launcher pops out, and then I still have to select the app I wanna switch too. I wanna be able to click on it instantly. but thanks, I'm installing ccsm!
arand, I installed ubuntu on my cr-48 and its running kind of sluggish
is windows server any good?
any idea?, please check the pastebin URL i posted..
I remember there being a 2d
oh, 2d.. id on't think so.
It can be installed, but is not default in any release no.
apt-get install unity-2d
And select it at login
yxz97, looks like you are trying to run a 64bit program on a 32bit system
arand, so that'll allow me to have 3d and 2d available?
then use your own backups, or just resetup the WM
yxz97, or that you have a 32bit jvm on a 64bit system. what is Azureus
Yes, choose at login.
its a bittorrent client
but I want all 32bits
no mess
 I am sure win 7 is intact only ubuntu grub is deleted or something
!info azureus
BitTorrent client. In component universe, is optional. Version 4.3.0.6-1.1ubuntu1 (natty), package size 11552 kB, installed size 12940 kB
the thing is, I didn't do any, and with any other configuration file it always asked me if I'm okay with changes being made...
yxz97, something is 64bit did you download/install a 64bit version of Azureus or a 64bit JVM
hello, is dangerous upgrade kubuntu maveric to natty? How many time?
azureus is in the repos
ipv6.torrent.ubuntu.com seems to complain that the "requested download is not authorized for use with this tracker" when downloading the various ubuntu-11.04-*.iso files. could someone please authorize the ubuntu isos to that ipv6 tracker?
oh my word people...who decided on such a white theme for the ubuntu.com page? Please, please, put a background in place which is easier on the eyes...that damned thing looks embarrassing. I thought the page was broken at first
ChogyDan, still isntalling
 I am sure win 7 is intact only ubuntu grub is deleted or something
what's the difference between i386 and amd64, other than the 4GB limit?
then all I can sugest is you reset it up, I also suggest you review your backup regime to include the compiz settings
hey all....having a problem with front panel audio, if i start audio it everything defaults to rear panel however if i run aplay /some/audio.wav and start another track durring the aplay it goes to the front panel, any tips on how to toggle between front and back panel only?
Ubuntu_user, grub would install over the mbr and then try to chainload the win7 loader on its partition, but that loader may have hard coded addresses for other components of the windows boot which may have moved during the resize
howdy all!
Performance, and the ~3.2G limit is only for individual applications if you use PAE.
each process can use more than 4Gb RAM, extra features enabled in the CPU
hm
Ubuntu_user, the combination of resize + replacing the windows mbr bootloader could break the win boot requiring either a win7 reinstall or the use of win7 rescue cd to fix the boot process
ok, iḿ installing it from the repos now
Is there anyway to remove all GUI's from my Ubuntu install and just use it similar to Ubuntu Server? I built it up from ubuntu minimal, but cannot upgrade to 11.04 so I just want to scrap the gui.
64bit is faster in almost all cases.
ok
heavy computatinal thins like video encoding will be faster, regular desktop stuff will not see any noticable speed change
can someone help me
will go with 64 bit then
 yes thats true, what  people are saying over ubuntu forums, windows does something with MBR
does anyone know how I take my NIC out of monitor mode or restart it?
how do i install slovak language on ubutnu, i already installed english
great
for standard desktop stuff the increase is negligible
h
hi
and now I get segfault on emerald, toio
too*
emerald is no longer maintained
 maybe 11.04 has some solution to it
econdudeawesome, uninstall Xorg and all Xlibs should remove everything else. be aware many command line tools have guis and might get pulled in
somehow I can't get this stupid USB Thumbdrive to be recognised by my BIOS
walent, system/adminstration/language support
thanks escott--I know my command line tools, so that should work alright. Should I reboot first?
ask in ##hardware
boot into a command line?
ChogyDan, !#%$& still not working
so, where can I change current window decorator options?
econdudeawesome, you can just Ctrl-Alt-F1
ccsm or simple-ccsm
Holek, right click the desktop, last option
LAcan, i did but its sort of greyed out
walent, then u need to install the language pack from ubuntu software center
Hi all having a bit of a problem. I just got a nvidia gt 430 to hook up ubuntu to my tv. I set the sound settings to use HDA Nvidia Digital Stereo (HDMI) but I do not hear anything coming out of my tv.
does anyone know how I take my NIC out of monitor mode or restart it? escott?
Ubuntu_user, doubt it the problem seems to be with win7 get the rescue cd and see if it can fix
Ubuntu_user, whats the problem you are having?
guys, does anybody know, if broken dependency  problem with nvidia-96 was fixed in 11.04?
LAcan, iwconfig won't do it for you
ukuykluilk
escott, just "iwconfig"?
iwconfig wlan0 mode Auto
escott, ty ty
 tried it i completely restored window too with dell recovery cd but nothing same screen again, but when i repaired ubuntu with live CD everything was solved
 you've checked volume and mute settings on both TV and computer?
Yes.
does anyone know if a dist-upgrade will ruin LAMP + RVM + Passenger?
TerryBook I get sound from the cable box, i used alsamixer to unmute everything
okay, but ccsm doesn't give me themes, and desktop preferences give me just preloaded themes with no configuration options
....I need some disks >.< this always happens on release day
ok.  what sort of hdmi cable are you using?
Ubuntu_user, Holek u have a nvidia?
TerryBook, the cabley kind?
 ATI
Holek, that is normal behaviour. if you want more theme configuration you have to install tweak ubuntu or ccsm for compiz
nope, integrated Intel
not sure about "themes" it usually uses the GTK theme you set
hdmi on both ends?  one cable all the way through, or is there a connector in the middle?
One cable.
So I just installed Unity 2D on my netbook, but I want to make the icons of the dock smaller. So I went into compiz to go to the plugin to make them smaller and this plugin is disabled. How can I make the icons smaller on unity 2d?>
Holek, however u should be able to turn on effects thru that method i described
does that matter
 r      may help
Ubuntu_user, is ubuntu using the nvida drivers?
which hdmi port on the tv are you using?  some tvs don't have sound support on all hdmi connections.  don't ask me why, it gave me trouble when I used to install DirecTV for people
ActionParsnip, just... r?
Roasted, omgubuntu had something on that recently try googling their site
Ubuntu_user, sorry u are having the booting issue correct? the pastebin from earlier?
also, that said, are you using nvidia-current?
I just want to customize my window decorator, everything else I am setting already in ccsm, I cannot change window decorator theme via ccsm
•TerryBook• I unplugged the port the cable tv was using, so it should have sound, the cable did.
yeah, should reset things (works in debian), or just restart X server
does anyone else have an ATI Raden HD 5850?
 no when i install ubuntu newly it just says download and install ati drivers
ActionParsnip, what am I resetting? I'm on unity 2d now... I just want to change the icon size smaller than default.
Holek, in ubuntu natively thru the theme option in right clicking should allow you a) pick a theme and b) pick the level of desktop effects. this does in fact work correct?
LAcan, Ubuntu_user was having problems booting windows not ubuntu if I understand him correctly
Ubuntu_user, ok, so we need to fix your boot settings?
Hey. I'm about to install Natty, i have 2 hdd's, will I get any performance boost if i put everything on hda except /usr and swap (which i will put on hdb)?
 yep true,
 the only other thing I can suggest at this point is driver-related.  are you using nvidia-current, and have you checked the NVidia settings?
the X server, may help
yes, it does, but my point is, I don't want to "choose", I want to do my own
maximus_, its  good idea to put the swap on a physically seperate volume
maximus_, your fastest setup is raid0 stripped
•TerryBook• I don't know how to check the nvidia settings, but I'm using the restricted driver the driver tool wanted to activate.
ello
Holek, ok, thats above my paygrade, your gonna need a them builder or whatver.... have you tried tweak ubuntu? it has many visual tweaks available
escott - hard drives are different sizes...)=
is it in the repo?
:)
hello. I have been given a laptop with radeon x1200, and I have to get 3D accel working in the next 3 hours, or I won't get paid :D
Hi, why I cant update to Natty Narhwal throught update-manager-d ?
Holek, tweak ubutu should be, or the PPA is easily findable thru google... but i think its in the native repos yes
 assuming you're still in 10.04 or 10.10 and gnome, it's in the System/Administration menu, as 'NVidia X Server Settings'
I've tried so many things, and I've almost given up hope
maximus_, you can still strip up to the common size and have the rest for swap or large files (not that I recommend stripping)
Hiiiiiiii
•TerryBook• That contains no sound settings AFAIK
!log 10
DexterLB, and you have installed all the fglrx drivers
Is dangerous upgrade kubuntu maveric to natty?
rundown of what you've tried?
fglrx doesn't seem to work with that chip, nothing in ubuntu's hardware driver suggestions and envy isn't available on maverick
do DNS servers tell on which port to connect when we request a website ? Or is it ALWAYS port 80 and we have to set a redirection on an another port if the webserver is set elsewhere ?
Ubuntu_user, still here? can you mount your window drive in ubuntu?
neckoox, dns only tells where the server is nothing about ports
 sorry for disconnection
neckoox, dns does not include port information
thx
~escott - where can I read up about that..dont want to bother anyone with asking how to do that..
I tried installing all the fglrx packages, it says no supported hardware
 someone else might be able to better help you, then
Ubuntu_user, u can mount your windows drive in ubuntu?
maximus_, mdadm documentation
ok x
fglrx does not support that chipset. The open source drivers should work fine. (they do on my x1400)
•TerryBook• k thanks!
Is there any hope in sight for dual screen systems with unity being able to choose which screen the dock is on?
DexterLB, is the x1200 super old?
yup
Well, I removed my GUI, but now my color scheme is the purplish-grey of bootup for Ubuntu. How do I modify my color to something more acceptable?
does it have 3D?
maximus_, feel free to pm if you have mdadm questions
wouldn't it display on the display set as primary?
Yes.  I wouldn't expect to be able to play games on it, but compiz works fine.
somethinginteres, the beta did not.
 so how to fix boot records
somethinginteres, it just forced the dock to the far far left, no matter how you stacked your monitors.
hmm, compiz here says No GL
Ubuntu_user, by answering the questions :) Can you mount your windows drive in ubuntu? can you see your windows files?
perhaps you should lodge a bug report.. seems like that'd affect many people
somethinginteres, so for me it was a PITA, because my main monitor is on the right. So my unity dock defaulted to the left... but my left monitor is just for watching news, weather, IMs, email, etc. So I hate to have to swing way over to use that dock.
somethinginteres, well I heard it was a work in progress. But this was 2 weeks ago. I wasnt sure if anything had changed.
w00t i got sound
escott thanks, will give it a look at. btw, never used IRC, how do i reply just to you? what am i supposed to put infront of the name?
Does anyone know how to change the initial color scheme for the command line?
yes
there's a new version of unity out that hasn't landed, that changes a number of things e.g. "Home Folder" to "File Manager". Maybe it is fixed in there
Can you check your xorg log to see what driver you are using?
somethinginteres, will that be part of regular system updates, you think?
You really should log a bug.
Pici, one exists I believe.
maximus_, /msg
I had hoped it would be out by now, I am sure it will come in regular updates at -some- time. Not sure when
Ok if I type aplay -D plughw:1,9 /usr/share/sounds/alsa/Front_Center.wav I hear sound in my tv. Anyone know what the next step is?
Ubuntu_user_, ok, thats good :) so when you boot, u get the grub boot menu yes? the one which allows you to choose ubuntu?
hi
i have upgraded to 11.04
btw does anyone know if nortan antivirus is capatiable with Ubuntu?
how may i turn on "unity" now?
Bluebill-Wolf, no, it's not. Thank GOD.
natty looks like Macintosh
Bluebill-Wolf, hello no
econdudeawesome, do you mean the colors of the prompt  ($PS1 in .bashrc) or the background colors (right click on terminal and manage the profiles)
escott_, awesome, thanks (=
PhoenixSTF, no, it doesn't.
Roasted, yes it does
LOL
PhoenixSTF, I have been on Ubuntu since 2005. Ever since day one people have found a way to say it looks like Mac.
myh . . . wait a min what do you mean "thank god?"
 Yes i get it till the time i dont start windows, the moment i did,  on next restart i face this problem
PhoenixSTF, while the global menu is similar to mac, it's not the exact same. that is the *only* similarity. In other words - no, it does not.
Bluebill-Wolf, because norton sucks. horribly.
I know longer use terminal--the CLI for the OS
failed to upgrade to 10.10 :( i found topic, where it is discussed. Imho, it would be nice to allow to resolve problems , e.g., via synaptic (it it allowes).
Roasted, it looks more like mac than actualy look like maveric
the latest version that's landed in user updates is 3.8.10 but 3.8.12 is up on Launchpad. Hopefully it'll be available soon
Ubuntu_user_, wait im confused... on that menu there was an option for ubuntu and for windos7 yes?
what would you reccemend in its place?
Roasted, I cant even find the system options like before
econdudeawesome, then you need to edit your .bashrc
PhoenixSTF, well, no kidding... because maverick is a different version of ubuntu.
PhoenixSTF, well, yeah. it's a totally different interface.
any reason i can't update to ubuntu 11.04
I just installed natty narhwal on an "old" IBM laptop with 1,86GHz and ATI graphics. In the "Additional Drivers" application it it sais that no proprietary drivers are in use. Are there proprietary drivers that are better than the default ones, and if so, how do I get them?
 yes first three were related to ubuntu and fourth was for windows 7
PhoenixSTF, with gnome moving towards gnome shell, we would have had to make the change at some point regardless. ubuntu just went with unity instead, which is very similar to gnome shell anyway.
theholder,  are you on 10.10 right now?
i think that ubuntu 10.10's installer is faster that 11.04's :D
Hello
Ubuntu_user_, ok. but once you selected windows, the NEXT TIME you booted, the ubuntu boot menu was gone, and instead you got "no OS found"?
electronicboy_,  unless you use the minimal install cd
Roasted, totaly, is quite simple, very simple, i got to give credit to the dev team, but its way more complicated to get the system stuff that we need
Usually natty should tell you about extra drivers. Try running "additional drivers" yourself
Hi tie
 EXACTLY, you got the point
how do I add remmina to the panel on 11.04? Or how do you add anything to the panel
how can I su into a user and be able to launch graphical applications?
LAcan, Ubuntu_user_'s problem seems to be internal to Win7. grub is chainloading and win7 boot process is busted (happens from time to time when you resize ntfs)
Ubuntu_user_, hrmm ok thats weird.
Roasted, at least the menu stuff, otherwise terminal will be just fine
minimal install cd?? isnt that the alternate cd?
use the dash to search for "additional drivers" and run that and see how it goes
 really it is
How would you change the background color then?
PhoenixSTF, the important thing is to be open minded. I HATED unity and gnome shell. I used gnome shell at the end of last summer and I hated it. But you know... I used it more. I got to know it. And now that unity is here I'm using it more too.
John_Gate,   run  jockeyt-gtk
Ubuntu_user_, ok so how did you boot into ubuntu THIS time?
afternoon all... does anyone please know how in 11.04 (Ubuntu Classic), I can get the widget scroll bars not to do that annoying hiding, it's been driving me crazy
as far as an antivirus what would you guys reccomend?
 i am on windows
Ubuntu_user_, oooh thats different you mean you can boot Win7 but then you have no bootloader afterwards?
I start "Additional Drivers" but no drivers are displayed in the list..
Ubuntu_user_, Ok.. how did you manage to boot windows if "no OS found"?
PhoenixSTF, it'll take time. there will be headaches, frustrations, etc. But this is a unique opportunity for linux as a whole to provide a new interface that people can interact with differently than windows and mac could ever hope to. love unity or hate it, love gnome shell or hate it, both offer great features i fyou give it the time to adjust.
PhoenixSTF, that's my opinion, at least.
привет народ
hi coz_ yep thats the one
 yes
econdudeawesome, google for bash color prompt
I need help.. my  sound wont work.
Пожалуйста посетите #ubuntu-ru для получения помощи на русском языке  / Pozhalujsta posetite /join #ubuntu-ru dlya polucheniya pomoshi na russkom yazyke
try uninstalling the package "overlay-scrollbars"
quick question about natty, when will it ask me between classic gnome and unity?
while upgrading
Roasted, I never used gnomeshell so its quite a shock for me, but yes i will adapt, anything is better then windows IMO, it was just a bit of a shock, gonna take me some time to adjust
sorry "overlay-scrollbar"
Ubuntu_user_, you have two disks yes? windows on sda and ubuntu on sdb. did you know where grub was installed? sda or sdb?
[diablo],   are you on the unity desktop or classic,,,?? you said classic ...yes?
Bluebill-Wolf, You might take a look at ClamAV
No, you need to chose it at login
PhoenixSTF, like I said, I hated unity and gnome shell for weeks. many weeks.
thanks
was wondering
PhoenixSTF, but now that I'm getting used to it, I'm turning into a little bit of a fanboy :P
somethinginteres coz_ im in classic... not a fan of Unity at all
ruan, but gnome won't be an option later
[diablo],  are you also running  compiz?
i'll be using gnome3 if they force unity
Bluebill-Wolf, I believe that it's in the repositories.
coz_, yep
my /media/cdrom/cdromupgrade question - this only works for the alternate install cdrom....
 After problem i put Live CD in and reinstalled ubuntu, that repaired bootloader, then booted to windows deleted the drives of ubuntu and used mbr repair utility to clear all ubuntu records
if g3 doesnt work, then kde
econdudeawesome, unless you want a non-black framebuffer background... and I have no idea how that is done
Roasted, xD will I hatting it for now, in the future ok i might like, but i miss the menus! god how i miss the menus!!!!!!
how can I su into a user and enable graphical applications? (like shh'ing with the -x command)
ruan, i don't think any of desktop environments isn't on the way to good :)
[diablo],  ok open ccsm,, I believe we have a plugin at the bottom of th e list for that    although I havent tested it ,, sam put one in there  ,, give a try by either disabling it or clicking on it to see available options,, I cant get into it right now
Ubuntu_user_, ok download a freeware app called "EasyBCD" for windows
I need help   i have no sound!
 yes i have two drives on same HDD, but dont know where grub went
I have been unable to install kubuntu natty on my hp probook 4420 laptop, livecd always hangs while loading :/
coz_, ok sweet... thanks yeah
Ubuntu_user_, you mean you have 1 drive and two partitions
it would appear you're out of luck, try joining the channel #ati to ask for help
used the same one
How do you add somethign to the panel in natty?
and classic install(alternate)
?
 yes
okay, now that I disabled metacity, it looks better
!alternate
[diablo],  let me know if you can adjust it from there
that for that channel, I will join it!
Ubuntu_user_, ok, then make sure your windows menu looks legit then add an entry for your ubunut partition...
hey
I haven't tried but I doubt that would work, it seems to be a kernel issue
coz_, yeah just checking now
H4VK1, unclear what you mean. gksudo doesn't work?
!sound > tie-joe
during any *buntu install the system hangs even before the bootsplash is done loading
tie-joe, please see my private message
but still doesn't give me any way to customize it
 so you want to say i should boot windows after installing ubuntu then go to widows boot.ini and add a ubuntu record there
Ubuntu_user_, no, win7 doesnt use boot.ini
need help .. may i ask?
so, just upgraded to natty on my laptop, and i can't seem to activate nvidia drivers for acceleration anymore...
Please don't ask to ask a question, simply ask the question (all on ONE line and in the channel, so that others can read and follow it easily). If anyone knows the answer they will most likely reply. :-)
Anyone got any idea how I can add a "view workspace" button to my app launcher in unity? And also, how do I customise the size of the top-bar (with my username, the time, etc in it)
Ubuntu_user_, i want you to boot windows and using EasyBCD add an entry for "linux" in its options
Hi.I have 11.04 beta 2 installed how do i upgrade to 11.04 rc
mmmm coz_ cant seem to find it
If you install a development version of Ubuntu Natty and keep up with package updates, then you will be upgraded to the official release of 11.04 when it comes out. To make sure, type « sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade » in a console.
coz_, in ccsm
[Soma],   the worspace switcher  should do that
I ran out of space in "/" is there a safe way to alocate some space from /home to "/"?
how do i get unity working in vmware
ok
[diablo],  ah darn,,  let me check ,, hold on
i need to enable email sending from my fresh ubuntu sending from apache php webpage .. what should i do?
gparted from a livecd
okay i would do that, but tell me one thing will it also make that location primary to check first for OS's
okay, coz_ , then what about the top nav bar? I'd love to have that at the bottom, and a lot bigger than it is. I'm on 1920x1080 and it's *tiny*
ok guys i need some help, How do i put the System Resources um on the bar?
should i install mailserver?
just run your upgrades and you will get it
The-Kernel_, ehhhh not really. if they are adjacent you could boot the live cd and shrink/move/grow partitions as needed
hmm is ClamAV freeware ?
ruan, that won't destroy my data?
yes
[diablo],  sorry ,, I am on 10.10 right now and my ccsm   /  libc  is bad in  11.04  so I cant access  ccsm from there
hello
!info clamav
anti-virus utility for Unix - command-line interface. In component main, is optional. Version 0.97+dfsg-2ubuntu1 (natty), package size 123 kB, installed size 592 kB
I upgraded to 11.04 this morning and since when running under unity/gnome2 none of my windows get their window decorations drawn
remove unnecessary kernels to save lots of space
much obliged
The-Kernel_, but its really time-consuming
[diablo],   check in synaptic to see if the compiz-plugins extra are installed
Ubuntu_user_, windows really likes to be primary, so your best bet is yo use windows boot menu and ad an entry that points to your ubuntu partition... then when u boot u can pick either OS or switch between grub and winload.exe
what video chip?
coz_, np ... at least I know where to be looking... many thanks yeah
ActionParsnip, ATI HD Radeon 4650
how do i get unity working in vmware
[diablo],  as i recal from 2 days ago... there was a plugin for it  but  again I will have to reinstall to find out :(
Ubuntu_user_, basically you want to make an entry for windows in grub (u already have it seems) and make an entry for ubuntu in windows...
NOC, install smtp-server
did you try removing the proprietary driver then reinstalling it after a reboot?
ActionParsnip, I have not I'll do that now
Bluebill-Wolf, Clamav is in the repositories.
Ubuntu_user_, make sure you are not deleting any entries to either, you are just adding them
as in Klam av?
hi, I use 10.10 x86 and recently noticed my laptop supports 64bits... is there any way to upgrade to 11.04 64bits from 10.10 x86 with no loss at all?
 * LAcan is going for coffee and cigarettes, back in 5.
  emerald --replace
okay  i am gonna try it with 110.04 today, will you be on irc tommarow
its what poped up when in the ubuntu soft center
GuataPeluda, no, do a reinstall
**11.04
how do i get unity working in vmware
I don't theme much, it really doesn't interest me so you are asking the wrong guy
echo2,  I dont think you will
Ubuntu_user_, its not a ubunut rpoblem man, its a winload.exe problem. reinstaling ubuntu wont do jack
escott thanks
Bluebill-Wolf, No, clamav
emerald gives me segfault
Hi guys, Im trying to update to 11.04, but when I click upgrade in update manager, I get told "Could not download release notes Please check your internet connection." An suggestions, guys? thanks!
coz, it's not optional
vmware supports 3d
aero, etc works
It is not in the Ubuntu repository, and thus we cannot support it here.
Ubuntu_user_, give the windows rescue cd a try
what.
how do i check if im not on ubun tu 11.04 beta 2 i did sudo update and upgrade
its ubuntu itself
Join #vmware for help.
hi all - having upgrade issues; I downloaded the alternative iso, hoping to avoid load on upgrade servers (the iso can be got over bittorrent), but when installing it, it still decides to obtain all packages from remote servers and not the mounted ISO or bootable USB made from the ISO. Why?
!version
To find out what version of Ubuntu you have, type « lsb_release -a » in a !shell - To know the available version of a package, « apt-cache policy <package> »
 this time dont have any Ubuntu installed
its your guys fuckin issue
its not vmwares fault
Please watch your language and topic to help keep this channel family-friendly, polite, and professional.
3d is supported, etc
Sidewinder1 mind if i pm you i keep loseing track of what your saying
i can go do the opengl demos etc
how do i force unity to start
lsb_release  -a
Please ask your questions in the channel so that other people can help you, benefit from your questions and answers, and ensure that you're not getting bad advice. Please note that some people find it rude to be sent a PM without being asked for permission to do so first.
 yes had tried it and no boot menu had appeared.
I cant get the Unity2D panel working in Vmware for anything... blah
Is there a way to adjust Ubuntu so it doesnt require a PW when resuming from suspend mode?
echo2, please watch the language
try renaming the folder holding the emerald config
Bluebill-Wolf,  Go rught ahead. :-)
right
echo2, make sure you have installed any available guest additions
i did
Guys, my ubuntu 10.10 livecd won't install...it won't mount my drives, and it won't connect the internet with my broadcom wifi card (i know the model)....it's very annoying as I  really wanna dump windows LOL. Someone suggested that I try 10.04, but I don't want to burn a new cd. I thought I could use daemon tools to run the .iso, would that work?
 * Bluebill-Wolf nods "i'm just trying to make certin i am understanding what is being told to me is clear then i can conferm as well"
did they do away with netbook edition for 11.04?
okay i will create a video of the same problem  and upload it to youtube on my channel. please have a look of it
i have problem whit iptv on eth0 its working on eth1 it dont
you don't mount drives, you mount partitions
I didn't know about gksu, it doesn't work though.. I am using it right aren't I? "gksu -u <user> nautilus" -- that just makes a password box pop up then nothing happens
How do you add something to the panel in natty?
okay, well It won't mount my partitions
did you test the CD for defects wen it started to boot?
what do you mean by "won't install"?
mang0, broadcom often takes some post install config best to work from ethernet, can you describe your mounting problem better
okay
let me write this better in pasteall.org
Hi guys, Im trying to update to 11.04, but when I click upgrade in update manager, I get told "Could not download release notes Please check your internet connection." An suggestions, guys? thanks!
How do I make IRC rooms show up in the Empathy user list?
can somebody help me whit iptables farwarding?
H4VK1, what are you trying to accomplish?
$ emerald --replace
Segmentation fault
open the application and right click on the icon, select "Keep in Launcher"
do you mean the unity panel on the left or the top panel?
so, no effectr
Fopp maybe the ubuntu servers are overloaded or you could just check your internet connecntion
the top panel
Yes.
try the emerald irc channel (if they have one), or ask in #compiz
How do I make Irc channels show up in the Empathy user list?
 LAcan  intrestingly if i install ubuntu using option "Install inside windows" i am able to use both as fine as two windows
well, the internet is fine, hence im here. Its probably the former, since its release day and all. thanks.
Hi
as flipp said, connection or server. you can switch your upgrade server though
I want to add Remminal to the top panel
ah, okay, ty Logan_
s/Remminal/Remmina/
You're welcome.  11.04 should work just fine on netbooks.
Ubuntu_user_, huh? do you mean wubi. are you trying to install from within a virtual machine?
not sure, as far asa I've seen its not very changable, if you boot to the normal desktop and start unity then you may be able to add stuff
trying to install ia32-libs from a ppa (the ubuntu servers are SWAMPED!!), to get utorrent server running, so I can join the mass-share of the Ubuntu iso files.  Transmission just doesn't give a good upload rate in comparison.
i need to enable email sending from my fresh ubuntu sending from apache php webpage .. what should i do?
How do I make Irc channels show up in Empathy's user list?
apparently, jockey(?) says the drivers are installed, but not activated. but my x log says direct rendering is yes. and nvidia settings says everything is a-ok. glxgears is running, but i can't get unity to load, i just get shunted back to classic 2d
just open nautilus as another user -- I've created a different user as a sandbox so I can hopefully not muck up anything other than a single folder.
Has anybody some experience with ltsp?
H4VK1, gksudo will run as root, gksu -u username will ask for that users username
hey every1
 in the end i had given it a try
congratssss to all natty has been released
 but all those errors arrived when i install as full using live cd
H4VK1, if you have a shell for the other user you may need to fiddle with xauth to make stuff work, but gksu* will take care of that for you
anybody can help me whit iptables??
can anybody tell me how to restore aptoncd iso image without burning cd/dvd using a pendrive???
I do add IP addresses via "ip a add" command from a script. Since this isn't reboot safe I wanted to add the "ip a add" command to rc.local. Is this a good way?
has anybody seen my usb key? hmpf i think i lost it ... hmm i wanted to install ubuntu via usb but i cant find my usb key .... -.-
tonite I'll upgrade to natty =)
guys, does anybody know, if broken dependency  problem with nvidia-96 was fixed in 11.04?
can anybody tell me how to restore aptoncd iso image without burning cd/dvd using a pendrive???
hey guys, can anyone tell me how to install ubuntu on a non-ubuntu linux netbook (no CD) with arch linux on it?
Thanks, I really liked having all of my rdesktop servers in one list. I will look for something else.
 i think what LAcan  has suggested is gonna work. But will you guys be here tommarow
or even how do i make an image for USB to boot a linux machine, can't find that on the site
do a USB stick install
i tried, but i can't find a way to put the image on a USB if i don't already have ubuntu
can anyone help me to merge a partition to /home partition
use universal usb installer from pendrivelinux.com
I don't think I need 22 kernels
hm, correction, additional drivers says the nvidia drivers are activated, but not in use... what does that mean?
and how to "use" them?
 * LAcan is back.
anyone know of a mirror for 11.04 server for i386?
seems like it is down for all mirrors :(
olek201
example ^^^
there is program that will help, but I can't think of it. Give me a second...
can anybody tell me how to restore aptoncd iso image without burning cd/dvd using a pendrive???
device not managed. how can i make it to manage wired network?
no, I suggest you remove the oldest ones, you only really need 2, each kernel is about 120Mb
how do I gain root privilegies so I don't have to type sudo all the time ?
does anyone have any ideas as to why 11.04 install is so dim i cant see what it says lol?
su
marel, sudo -
ah yea, tried tht with the last ubuntu version, didn't work (just wouldn't do anything when i started it) but thx i'll try again with 11.04
hi everyone - has anyone managed to upgrade relying solely on the alternative cd, rather than from the remote upgrade server?
i'm trying to do so in order to avoid adding load to that server, which is crawling already
did you specify the network parameters for the wired link in /etc/network/interfaces by any chance?
how is 11.04 so far?
Well, not sure about that one, but you could switch to wicd.
marel, sudo -i sorry
Right click on network manager click "edit connections"
sudo -i
been fine here since alpha 2
is anyone having problems with their wireless connection at the moment?
I would guess at acpi issues, try booting with acpi=off
Are there 3 drivers available for ati/amd-cards? the default "radeon" driver, fglrx and the catalyst driver?
marel, try sudo -i
should be able to set it up from there
unless I can customize some of the options I can't find menus for, I'm going back to gnome2. Biggest complaint
can i install ubuntu 11.04 on sys. with 512 ram
hmm ok
I don't have a pidgin indicator in the messaging menu anymore. How can I re-enable it? I've been using natty since beta
I think there might have been a bug I remember. When prompted, don't just hit enter, go into the menu and choose the default. That seems like how I  got around it
11.04 so far has been less than stellar ... :(
ScottR3, su won't work for most people as out of the box there is no root password
seems as though its on and on
radeon, radeonhd, ati and frglrx
you're right, sorry. forget these things sometimes ;)
i'm all for a new desktop. kde stinks, gnome not much better. windows and mac desktops barely better. time for change.
hi everybody again!
try LXDE :)
UNITY ROCKS!
ActionParsnip, Ah, thanks. which is the better of the proprietary ones?
how do I remove a dir with all contents in it ?
depends on needs
i use awesome wm on my arch netbook right now
tried gnome3?
not yet
ScottR3, np
 sudo apt-get install wicd ; sudo apt-get remove network-manager
im going to try it really soon
marel, rm -rf foldernmae
command line?
shane4ubuntu, yeah
for most things the open source driver is fine, if you need full 3D goodness (an your chip is supported by it) then the frglrx driver will be needed
marel, be very careful before doing something like that as root
<other_max> If you think it sucks that try to make your own shell, you will realize how difficult it is , so better respect the work done by devels
so I've got a few questions on how to, er, fix some of the customizations unity has taken liberty with
like escott said, rm -rf foldername  be carefull with that though
What is your problem?
1) how do I move the launcher? it's on the left side of my right-hand monitor...
Anyone know of a good way to partition ubuntu for a 64GB SSD with a 640GB for storage?
heya
well it seems a bit temporamental
on and off
at last installed 11.04 it rocks!
i have ubuntu 11.04, 64 bit, with gnome, and i can`t see the top menu(under the title bar) for no application anymore - why?
isn't 11.04 supposed to have unity? i installed it but it just loads gnome...
on my eeepc 1005PE the touchpad is disabled on the live install
Is the Natty upgrade service down?
TheXero, if you mean you have an ssd and a hdd I would put / on the ssd to improve boot and put /home on the hdd
Does anyone know how to change the background on the OS CLI? I have read through a few bash how-tos and can't seem tog et it to work--they recommend editing ~/.bashrc, but that is user-specific. It appears I need to edit something more?
has anybody managed to update to natty without relying on the update server (i.e., on the alternative iso?)
Does it just get dissabled or what?
anyone able to install natty on an hp probook 4420s? all of the buntus I tired frooze while loading :/
<Sal9000> your GPU is not is not enough for unity
econdudeawesome, there is a bash profile in /etc which would be a global option
Yeah that's what I meant escott :)
not sure, here in AU the package information doesn't seem to be updating
try unity-3d
it does not disable at all
try unity-2d
Logs etc are in /var/log correct?
just seems very slow
oh i might have forgotten to enable 3d in the virtualbox vm
TheXero, yes
is everyone getting a slow connection, or is it just me?
Here in Britain my internet connection is fine but Natty won't upgrade
upgrading to 11.04
I don't have a pidgin indicator in the messaging menu anymore (in natty). How can I re-enable it?
servers are overloaded, best off downloading the torrent, getting a disk and upgrading that way, alt-disk
took me 2.5 hours just to download the packages :-/
Is Virtualbox-ose not available for natty? I don't see the repo listed on virtualbox's site
I was going to put /tmp on the hard drive, as I only have 6 GB of ram and I host a few vm's as well
how can i enable title bar menus in all aplications in ubuntu 11.04 ? because i can`t see it anymore. i have gnome
oh, there it is :)
Never knew Ubuntu was this popular :D
What other partitions should I look at moving to the hard drive?
ScottR3, dam
is this bash profile in /etc the one that is used at startup?
... and send resulting URL for us to see.
I'm trying to install software that came in a tarball and I've read on forums that first I have to ./configure, however it says no such a file or directory.. What am I doing wrong ?
econdudeawesome, is the color prompt actually what you want? or are you trying to change background colors
just the background color
What exactly are you installing?
it's purple, I want to change it to black
touchpad worked after a reboot
folks, plz tell me will natty work properly on pentium 4,3ghz ,512 mb ram system
usr13, python IDE called pyCharm
econdudeawesome, thats going to be something with the framebuffer not bash
shane4ubuntu, my download is about 50% done. If I quit now, do I start from 0% later on?
how do I change that?
econdudeawesome, dunno google for linux framebuffer set color and see what you get
erge
Have you checked pycharm's support?
how do I remove the top menu bar from my second monitor?
 yep, so you decide, ride it out, or start a torrent for the disk, once you have the disk image, and burn it, you shouldn't have to download more stuff right way
You can't install via the package manager?
marel, a python program probably doesn't have a configure/make. just look for a .py to run
say me please, update 10.10 to 11.04 works correctly ????
Its a commercial application
O
anyone managed an offline upgrade to natty yet?
mang0, its very strange that it can't find the disks. when you boot the livecd and run gparted does it not see your disks?
really depends on the situation, how much extra applications you have installed, and where you installed them from.
escott no it doesn't
:/
all application from original repository
mang0, can you tell us a bit more about your hardware or pastebin the output from lspci
So how is 11.04 support with multi monitor then?
yeah
then you probably have a good chance, however I can't really comment on that since I haven't done that.
I'm writing that now
I'm a little hesitant to upgrade from 10.10
happy natty everyone
does abnybody can help me how to open port on ubuntu 10.10 when eth0=wan and eth1=anotherpc, on eth0 i can watch iptv but on eth1 it dont work!
ok, thx
i forgot again how I can only download (but not yet install) natty on my 10.10, can anyone help out?
one thing to consider, is the servers are very overloaded so, downloading the upgrade packages will take longer than normal, one person said it took them about 2 hours
oh dear this unity surely is a change... ill try to use it a few days and see if i can survive :P
why is 32 bit recommended over 64 bit?
you could download the alt-desktop disk from torrents and then pop that in and upgrade off the disk, perhaps a faster solution
What will happen to lost of bug in 11.04 ? will only be fixed with 11.10 ?
What will happen to all the bug in 11.04 ? will only be fixed with 11.10 ?
hello all
happy Nasty Naughty
dcweyh, works for everyone no "I tried to install a 64bit version on a 32bit machine"
does abnybody can help me how to open port on ubuntu 10.10 when eth0=wan and eth1=anotherpc, on eth0 i can watch iptv but on eth1 it dont work!
Not liking 11.04 at all... Going to give it a chance for a week, but I'm just getting frustrated with it at the moment... :-/
ok thanks
if i get a package like zend studio which is a binary package, where should i put the directory so that it's in user's paths according to ubuntu "standards"?
can anyone help with PtokaX server on Ubuntu
see lot of open issue affecting me... wonder if I need just to stick to 10.10 until november
mnoyce, you aren't alone
any body answer me ?
ojii, guessing you would have to switch your apt sources, update and then run a normal download packages, and then revert to the old apt sources and update again
you can switch to the classic desktop if you don't like the desktop
those aren't bugs...those are lack of features
ok, try this way
ex0a, no standard for that. ~/bin is sensible though
greyhatsalafi, Agreed, there is just a total lack of reconfigurability
ex0a, unless you want it for everyone in which case /opt
hello, i am trying to setup a home server/gateway using linux server 10.04 and 2 NICS
 * LAcan nods at Bluebill-Wolf 
jubei1, go ahead.
I could, but I want to give it a try if this the future of the Ubuntu desktop, just to be fair...
sudo apt-get install build-essential linux-headers
KrisDouglas I don't even use ubuntu anymore...i have it installed on my laptop but i triple boot and my main is now CrunchBang...i recommend it...total control and everything works
escott, ah, i thought there's a apt-get command to do it :(
understood.
well i rather have the conversation privite and then post the ruslts :P
it is possible to make that very large menu in 11.04 smaller
right
gib0t, menu editor in system/preferences ?
I would suggest a using firewall generator, or just install firestarter
thx
you can do it by hand but...
does grub support btrfs?
 * LAcan nods at usr13 
greyhatsalafi, I would use crunchbang, but i write software for an office FULL of ubuntu machines
in fact 2 offices.
oh
/opt is more along the lines i was looking for, but seeing as i'm the only desktop user on this machine i think i was asking more to see if there was a standard.. i'll probably just leave it in my ~ somewhere for simplicities sake.. ty!
LTSP, the works.
graingert, some of the newer versions might, but i think it is safer to have an ext4 /boot
hehe...well...hopefully Unity gets the features it needs
k
morning
is 11.04 using gnome 3 ??
greyhatsalafi, yeah, i love the way it is going- I just think they might have landed it a bit /too/ early.
who knows is gnome 3 in ubuntu 11.04 ?
graingert, btrfs on / is not something i would recommend. its a painful experience
Ruuuumb0, You can install it, but it breaks Unity
hello, i am trying to setup a home server/gateway using linux server 10.04 and 2 NICS, from the server i use eth1 to dial PPPoE to router and can ping out to internet from server. I use eth0 to switch to give access to client PC's. from the clients i can be assigned dhcp from server and can ping the server. however i cannot ping the internet, the server is blocking requests(?). i have setup
packet-forwarding=1 and have put some rules into iptables, but i messed up the iptables rules... could someone inspect the iptables rules, this is 1st time im doing it, and let me know what they think?
I hope not. its crap
mang0, i need more details, like actual chipsets.
RealOpty, no, it use it`s own unity
sure, pastebinit it
escott, mind if I tab?
KrisDouglas i agree...not ready...but they wanted to push it out to have something to show...so they got the bugs out, but added nothing to make deadline...   I hate right-clicking and getting nothing.
natty is released?
ok
mang0, feel free to /msg me
ok let me get on that
does any know how install PtokaX and Dixbot  on ubuntu
what about /query?
Cuz I can't see /msgs in a sepearte tab
*seperate
mang0, sure
does any know how install PtokaX and Dixbot  on ubuntu
Stameni, is it similar to gnome3?
RealOpty, it has similarities
Why does the Ubuntu website look like someone accidentally uploaded a draft version?
RealOpty, I will myself try to stick with standard gnome interface
hey , im upgrading to natty , so will that remove gnome completely or can i choose from Unity/Gnome once upgrade finishes ?
Perhaps if you explained what those were we could help you.
The latter.
RealOpty, you can choose what u want to use while logging
Lots of "Marker1, Marker2" stuff, css styles that have pictures blocking text, etc. It looks terrible.
Thanks ! :D
woo upgrade day!
yeah :D
i did the upgrade
same here but on Kubuntu
there isn't menu editor
dear god, somebody please help me configure unity
does natty come with nautilus?
Can someone tell me is standard gnome interfece in 11.04 the same as in 10.10 ?
have you tried something webkit?
PhoenixSTF, yes
I'm using Chrome right now.
how to update grub entry in 10.10 it has grub2
gib0t, im on 10.10 look for something called "Menu Manager"
gib0t, alacarte
harpal, u need to edit the windows partition. can u boot windows?
escott, hmm drobox isnt working....
 pastebinit firewall-script
did you try  dropbox start -i
I dont need to boot to windows, I need to change kernel and I have compiled new kernel with some patches
(and send resulting URL)
everytime i try to upgrade it says to check the internet connection
guys howz ubuntu 11.04?
I just hit refresh again and now it looks beautiful. I must have caught it just as it was being updated or had a bad cache of the stylesheet
though im on it right now
lol
harpal, download "Grub Customizer" it has a PPA .. google it
PhoenixSTF, i've heard about assorted dropbox/nautilus issues, but don't use it myself. if this is post upgrade I would remove dropbox, reinstall nautilius and then reinstall dropbox
ehm... i used the prerelease for a while with unity-2d in lack of a working graphical driver. now i got one working. so i started to use unity-3d. but the 2d menu bar overlayed the 3d. actually two bars loaded. so i uninstalled all unity-2d packages and reinstalled unity-3d. but i am not able to get i loaded from the login screen.... help?
Is there anyway to turn off the Apps for Download list?
has anyone used apt-cache-ng to do distupgrade ??
harpal, grub2 autofinds kernels should just be able to drop it in /boot
so in the official release of 11.04 has anyone checked to see if you can right click and select compress on ISO images ?
is ubuntu 11.04 is recommended for desktop?
Does the Unity interface have a built-in way to enable desktop/visual effects like you could with the GNOME interface?
escott, it is working the icon on the tray is not...
sam16, yes
spoke too soon, I clicked "what's new" and now I'm seeing the same as before
 * LAcan recommends 10.10 for the next few months.
 just for trying ....not for standard use
jiohdi, thank m8 it is working :) icon on tray not so true
Witchsong, install compiz config settings manager
but looks fine on my android
is it ?
np
I take it I can now upgrade safely with update-manager -d?
I tried that and then run command update-grub but still entries not updated.
PhoenixSTF, shrug sorry
so u recommend ubuntu 10.10 only?
has anyone used apt-cache-ng to do distupgrade ??
and a few refreshes later it's fine again...
sam16, for the next little while yes. let the nerds work out all the bugs.. im gonna wait for 11.10 personally
I try to upgrade from Meerkat to Natty and the license says Natty is still beta. Is this supposed to happen?
escott, its ok m8 thanks anyway :)
Anyone know if it's a good idea to install the latest available Ubuntu server or should I stick to the LTS releases? How trivial (or not) is updating a non-LTS version as new releases come out? Stupidly non-viable?
okay okay, how are you _supposed_ to open multiple file managers in unity?
 if u wanna try it you can . but still few more fixings need for the latest version .
its ok, it will gradually update to full version
raju :so u recommend ubuntu 10.10 only?
 * LAcan nods at raju
anyone knows if natty got more suport on asus eeepc power control?
 tell me exactly do u wanna go for trying or standard using
harpal, i think it is grub-mkconfig
Ctrl+N?
standard usage
i want stable os
mnoyce, does nothing.
See my private message
how is the new beast
sam16, 10.04 should be the most stable...
Anyone know if it's a good idea to install the latest available Ubuntu server or should I stick to the LTS releases? How trivial (or not) is updating a non-LTS version as new releases come out? Stupidly non-viable? <- sorry meant to add this is for a WEB server
which work qick and stable
sam16 you might want to look at debian without ubuntu
Thriky, stick to it
sam16 go for  10.10
howdy! I got a no mount /dev/loop0 problem for 11.04
hmm
sam16, ya 10.10 is nice
currently em having that ...
If you have the file manager open, Ctrl+N should open another window.
mnoyce, thanks
somebody ?
what NOC?
Or you can email me if you like.
sam16 update it daily
 thank you guys for ur suggestion
i cant send email from my page
i have blank screen after booting into a fresh natty installation
Anyone here?
running apache
ok
help please
someone235, if none of the exceptions apply to you can you please pastebin the contents of /var/log/dist-upgrade/
what should i do bro LAcan
NOC, thats pretty broad... email from your page?
 i will try
I had the same issue this morning and when trying to open multiple terminal windows. :-/
oh good, my compiz settings got deleted
i mean .. its a contact form
NOC, #apache
raju, thanks..is there info i can give you to fix it?
Ok so I just reinstalled the propietary driver my ATI card and i'm still not getting my window decorations drawn in Unity
!apache
i need all features of 11.04 in ma 10.04  can u guys tell which all software i should upgrade
already done that
pre-release means beta\RC version?
NOC, #apache
NOC, you need to test if your smtp server is working, and then test if your php code is working
yes
my ubuntu is fresh
that menu in 11.04 is very unconfortable to manage I need 6 klicks for something I needed 2 before
Does anyone know if there's any way to turn off the Apps for Download list thingy?
how to do smtp in a correct way?
I think I have to change
you can switch to any other desktop like kde or xfce
NOC, try #ubuntu-server
telnet ?
gaara i am here only
thanks
raju , i'm a little desparate in trying to get this to work...
I know that but I like it to see how the new ideas for desktop are
escott, /var/log/dist-upgrade/ gots a lot of files
unity is still a work in progress
should i paste any specific file?
I got a problem for 11.04 - can not mount /dev/loop0 to //filesystem.squashfs due to  an I/O error.
bye
bye
 * LAcan is happy that he can use the internet off his BB thru bluetooth so painlessley in 10.10. Very impressed.
no login option?
someone235, well the log of the problem is somewhere in there. if you can look through those files to identify any problems
  Ctrl-Alt-F6
Thanks jiohdi
any first takes on 11.04?
Greeetings, I ran the update manager, but just found a few updates available and nothing about upgrading from beta 2 to stable. what's going on?
It's different...
a lot of things that did not work for me in 10.10 now work... like I can use docky with non-compositing desktops
E:Error, pkgProblemResolver::Resolve generated breaks, this may be caused by held packages.' - what 'held packages' means?
Did you try update-manager -d
it is possible to show in the unity startmenu more und smaller icons
Feels very... clunky and awkward at the moment. But it's only been a few hours in the driving seat.
if i upgrade from 10.10, besides backups, does it preserve my current home folder, custom directories and games I've copied?
@Officialllypclet me try to run  that command
i think than it is easier to handle on big screens with big resolution
your home directory stays the same... you can also make a second user and directory and play around in it without disturbing your first
Any luck?
mnoyce - still have to turn off compiz to play fps's well?
does kismet have a proper GUI? like a gnome interface?
..or drop the effects to basic
i'm having screen backlight problem after installation of natty! someone help! screen is almost pitch dark! though i know it boots in!
Don't play that many games, to be honest, so I cannot help you there.
Shows that there's not updates available, says system is updated
someon could help me?
hey all here is the question, I have a OSX Leopard hard drive as my second drive and ubuntu 10.10 see's it great but I cant change the permissions and it says invalid partition table
how do I check if my system still running beta?
hello, I need some help with ubuntu; I try to install it on a desktop via CD and every version of it I've tried installs some things and then says "Please insert the disk labeled Karmic Koala blabla"; whatever I press nothing happens - any idea?
First time I've used Compiz for a few releases.
gtklocker, where are you getting your CD's from?
if you were running beta it will just upgrade to full eventually no worries
cool, thanks mnoyce
ok
burning the isos but I've even tried with some shipped 6.06 that still didn't work
gtklocker, FROM WHERE?
TDK CD-Rs or DVD-RWs
bnmnb,
the isos from ubuntu.com
Guest31762, mac uses gpt not dos partition types. it shouldn't be giving you that error but gdisk can verify the gpt partition type
mnb,mnb,
ty escott
gtklocker, karmic koala seems like old software. get a 10.10 ISO and use that
work lan
if i install will xfce will run faster than gnome on ubuntu?
Dominater, why wouldnt u just install xubuntu?
not much
Ctrl+W makes switching between Apps on Desktops a lot easier...
I have tried with 11.04, 10.04, 10.10, same shit
Anyone here familiar with Likewise Open?
if i used to have beta2, if i dist-upgrade now, will i get final?
Oops! I meant Super+W makes switching between Apps on Desktops a lot easier...
guys, does anybody know, if broken dependency  problem with nvidia-96 was fixed in 11.04?
how i instal smeserver
unity will not load at login... how to fix? it starts fine from terminal
gtklocker, what are you picking as your GUI? have u tried just using the default (gnome)?
I have tried with the desktop and alternative versions, all same shit
because my laptop runs very hot when i run gnome so i need to try something light on it
Eduard, they are up to nvidia 173 now... but i dont know if thats for your card or what...
in natty, when I enable dual screen, my system becomes nearly unresponsive.  I have an nvidia 8800... should be fine
and while I could make a custom installation with say Arch Linux I don't know if it's possible with ubuntu
download the iso from the website, burn, and put it in the cdrom drive to install.
Is anyone else having trouble with enabling unity?
looks like it installed the wrong driver by default
Does 11.04 still have a netbook version?
should be enabled by default
manday, no
ok
no
ty
No. The netbook and desktop versions are now one and the same.
hello, i am trying to setup a home server/gateway using linux server 10.04 and 2 NICS, from the server i use eth1 to dial PPPoE to router and can ping out to internet from server. I use eth0 to switch to give access to client PC's. from the clients i can be assigned dhcp from server and can ping the server. however i cannot ping the internet, the server is blocking requests(?). i have setup
packet-forwarding=1 and have put some rules into iptables, but i think i messed up the iptables rules... could someone inspect the iptables rules, this is 1st time im doing it, and let me know what they think?
my gnome-network-manager keeps saying ethernet device is not managed? i removed eth0 from the wired interface how do i add it back?
It should, but I had to install proprietary drivers, so it booted into default gnome, and now it won't switch to unity. when I run 'unity' in the terminal, the computer freezes
probably a driverproblem if you have a clean install
i thought so
does ubuntu on shared connection transfare by default igmp protocol?
if there is more than one proprietary driver in the list try another one
Alright, thanks for the advice!
Ubuntu installer was not running (screen too dim to read). Used alternate installer as suggested by someone here. I'm finally up and running, but my screen is too dim to be useable. Fn+Fx keys pull up brightness indicator, but do nothing.
hello?
Planet_EN, iwconfig eth0 mode Auto
So I'm still trying to figure out how to change my TTY shell background color from purple to black. I've removed my GUI and used rcconf to turn off Xserver and GDM. Anyone know how to do this? escott has helped me a bit, but I think we've both run out of ideas.
how hard is it to revert back to the 10.10 gnome?
I did something, and now Windows + A and Windows + F key combinations don't open Find Applications/Find Files anymore.
:S
A) Not all Apps support them, and B) I just prefer proper scollbars.
ChronicSyncope, login to classic gnoem
gnome*
sagaci, okay, i haven't done the upgrade yet.
sagaci, thanks though, i wanted to know before I did it.
I see on the website, the new "dash" for natty is not fullscreen.  It is on mine, how to I resize the dash?
SET failed on device eth0 ; Operation not supported.
When buying a new laptop to use with natty narwhal, is it best to chose intel or amd processor? And amd, nvidia or intel graphics? I mean, does ubuntu run better with some cpus/gpus?
well trying it in VM complained about missing hw support and did that classic gnome by default; guess login screen will also have option for selecting that.
Planet_EN, is eth0 ethernet or wireless
wireless is connected
John_Gate, amd or intel are fine. I use AMD for servers running virtual machines. tends to cost a lot less
nonix4, yeah this is just netbook unity
nonix4, which you can turn off when logging in
I see!
wow my harddrive is making a scary noise from this update
i hope it's not the end
PLEASE FIX "WWW.UBUNTU.COM" WEB SITE ... !
PLEASE FIX "WWW.UBUNTU.COM" WEB SITE ... !
mah454, whats wrong with it?
mah454, what is wrong with it
what's wrong with it?
heh
it's working fine for me
Could someone please explain to me how the ubuntu windows installer works? Does it install ubuntu on the same partition as windows? And does it run ubuntu like a program?
Okay, I reinstalled, a different graphics driver, checked 'ubuntu' at log in, and I'm still not getting unity. None of the compiz effects are working either. Is there any simple way to activate unity?
me too
Planet_EN, is it wired or wireless
So I'm still trying to figure out how to change my TTY shell background color from purple to black. I've removed my GUI and used rcconf to turn off Xserver and GDM. Anyone know how to do this? escott has helped me a bit, but I think we've both run out of ideas.
I see on the website, the new "dash" for natty is not fullscreen.  It is on mine, how to I resize the dash?
how come htop and free show different memory usage?? :O
mikebot its very easy man
what version of ubuntu is this?
mikebot, do you mean wubi?
Yeah
10.10
 i think s
mikebot, yes it does, it creates a virtual disk, installation and uninstallation of wubi/ubuntu is like regular windows app
mikebot it creates a image file on your btfs partition in windows. then you reboot and can boot ubuntu but all changes you make are stored in this .disk file. if you dont like ubuntu anymore you can just uninstall like a programm
mikebot, it installs in windows LIKE a program, but runs separately like an OS. No partitioning involved.
that's a bit confusing.  You can't disable X using rcconf
So if I boot into Ubuntu, Windows will not be loaded, correct?
hey guys I was wondering if you can recommend any desktop recorder that works well with 11.04?
mikebot, correct
I uninstalled X. I want to work directly in the command line. But I'm trying to change the default background color--it persists to the tty shells
mikebot, wubi is a bit hairy. it creates a file on the ntfs (windows filesystem) and then somehow boots ubuntu with a loopback into that file. most people prefer using a virtual machine, or a straight install to the hard disk
!natty > Hedgehog456
Hedgehog456, please see my private message
What is the easyest way to upgrade from beta2 to final??
why did you say you used rcconf?
Thank you
vooze, apt-get upgrade
mikebot, no problem
just run your updates
compdoc can i send screenshot  for you ?
grub2 doesn't boot windows7. however, he recognizes the partition and adds it to the menu. when i try to boot it, nothing but a cursor appears. what's wrong?
btw how do i defrag my hard drive in ubuntu?
Lenovo ideapads come with like 4 partitions already, so I cannot create another to install ubuntu to dual boot
I used rcconf to turn off X-something, it's one of the options. But i'd already uninstalled portions of it
(And I need windows to run my university's exam software; no emulators allowed)
defragging is for stuff like ntfs and what not, not needed in ext4 and such
ChronicSyncope can i send screen shot for you ?
mah454, you can try - not sure if my dcc ports are open or not
mah454, sure
the proper way to stop gdm from starting is to just add "text" to your kernel line in grub
hey
!list
This is not a file sharing channel (or network); be sure to read the channel topic. If you're looking for information about me, type « /msg ubottu !bot ». If you're looking for a channel, see « /msg ubottu !alis ».
mikebot, i would suggest using virtualbox and running ubuntu as guest, or repartitioning
fair enough. My question is how to change the background coloration though. Do you know how to do that?
rumpel1, josephnexus says no updates..
lol
mikebot, but you can always try wubi see what happens
I want my Super + A / Super + F shortcuts back. Anyone know how?
vooze, apt-get update first
Hey guys, Is there any way to test to see If my current graphics driver supports unity
What is virtual box?
try setterm
josephnexus, i did :)
mikebot, free virtualmachine app from oracle/sn
mah454, just use an image hosting site like imgur.com
it's a way of virtualizing other operating systems
sun
so, I run that in a tty shell. Do I then need to restart? Or should it do that immediately?
it works quite well
you shouldn't need to restart
the free command seems borken ... when I check SystemMonitor or htop Im getting 500/4000 mb RAM used but when I check free it shows 3800/4000 RAM used :S:S
But would that force me to run two OSs?
oh dear god why did i choose to upgrade now. the repos are so backed up...
mikebot, are you trying to run one inside the other? or run the separately?
mikebot, well it is a virtual machine so yes
I see that it works fine on my little laptop, which has the gui installed. The coloration that persists seems to be whatever Plymouth is using, and setterm did not change that
the hid_cando touchscreen driver does not seem to survive suspend. dmesg tells the usb device was disconnected. the other usb devices are just fine...
quit just gone
to have a dual boot machine that has windows 7 starter and ubuntu netbook remix
escott, he might not know what a VM is, this is his first time installing an dualboot os
econdudeawesome, is it fbset?
I feel a great disturbance in the Force, as if millions of Ubuntu apt-get repositories suddenly cried out in terror, and were suddenly silenced.
econdudeawesome, dragging out some old old memories here
HOW DO I UPGRAde to 11.04?
fbset? That is the time I saw that
However, the crappy ideapad s10-3 comes with so many partitions that I am unable to create another one (is 4 the max?).
I tried setterm, but it would not work
phoenixsampras, just click the upgrade button in software upgrades
do I have to disable wireless for that?
mikebot, make a virtual partition (is that what it's called? i forget)
The area where the launcher would appear isn't functional for other applications using that area.
you make it the same exact way
OMG I DONT like this new relase
ChronicSyncope OK please wait ....
mikebot, you make it the same exact way in a partition manager
is that gnome 3???
hi, after installing ubuntu 11.04 in my notebook the wireless stop working
you dont think it would be something to do with Plymouth, do you?
For example, I cannot use Firefox's back and forward buttons.
compdoc OK please wait ...
what can i do?
mah454, i gotta run, send it to compdoc or josephnexus
brb updateing os
Am I allowed to have as many of those as I want?
does echoing the ansi escape sequence for "reset" or maybe "black background" work?
mah454, its not receiving - paste the shot online
Planet_EN, im uncertain what eth0 is... is eth0 a port on the side of your computer where you plug a wire, or is it a wireless connection
hello
mikebot, as far as I know. you can create them with any real partition manager
anyone with "Out of range" error after 11.04 install?
mikebot, i gotta run, sorry
hmm
OK, thnaks
I'll give that a try too
can you update ubuntu 10.10 to 10.11 or do you have to download the iso and install fully?
ok, I have 2 external monitors on my laptop running ubuntu, 1 port is display port and its "DP or laptop monitor" cant use both. so i dont use laptop screen. however power just went out and i lost my monitors, and switching to a TTY1 gave me a screen, i want to know if its possible to reenter a gui from TTy1 while X is running on TTY7?
econdudeawesome, it certainly is plymouth, but plymouth just modifies the framebuffer, you need to switch it back i think you can do stuff like that with fbset. you might check if there are gentoo docs on this
does anyone know how to make bash log in realtime
You can upgrade from 10.10 to 11.04.
_Neytiri_, shopt -s histappend and ...
I have the same problem
Hi. When I do a sudo do-release-upgrade I get connection timed out/unable to connect for archive.canonical.com. Should I go ahead with the upgrade?
did you boot from USB too or is it a CD?
export PROMPT_COMMAND='history -a'
how did you create the USB stilck
CD, then DVD on the CD iso
stick
unetbootin
I'm now downloading the DVD iso
_Neytiri_, if that was what you meant
witchsong - how? and is that the newest ? thanks
I'm going to format it again...
but mine was an I/O error
hello, i am trying to setup a home server/gateway using linux server 10.04 and 2 NICS, from the server i use eth1 to dial PPPoE to router and can ping out to internet from server. I use eth0 to switch to give access to client PC's. from the clients i can be assigned dhcp from server and can ping the server. however i cannot ping the internet, the server is blocking requests(?). i have setup
not sure if it is, i want to make it so as the commands are being run it loges them
ubuntu 11.04 :D
Make sure the usb stick is fat32, mine was having problems because it was fat16.
compdoc I use firefox-4
i am upgrading to 11.04 but the downloads are really slow
ChronicSyncope I use firefox-4
when I reformatted to fat32 and did unetbootin again it worked fine
similar thing here... I think the servers are a bit overwhelmed
I have Firefox on Ubuntu 11.04, but I do not have an import/export option in the "show all bookmarks menu." Does anybody know how else I can import my bookmarks?
I will try now.. gparted is rnning
Why aren't my compiz settings saving throughout a reboot?
_Neytiri_, as distinct from history?
Just boot from the DVD and the setup will give you the option to either wipe your existing 10.10 install before you install or just upgrade it to 11.04.
I just got mine working as we speak
what variation of setterm did you try exactly?
Hello. I dual-boot Ubuntu and Windows 7 and have 2 data partitions which I intended on sharing between the two, however, the newest partition isn't in the GPT table - is there a safe way to add it without breaking anything? :P
my unetbootin is running :) let's see..
witchsong - thanks, i just booted in and i got a pop up to install. wasnt expecting that with linux
Does anyone else have the issue that the launcher area cannot be used by other applications? Like there is an overlay which won't let you click through?
escott,  what do you mean by that
skabja, if you search google for 'ubuntu mirrors' you can see the d/l speeds of each site. pick a site thats fast. It took me about 6 mins to d/l 11.04 a little while ago
Hello. I have a hard disk problem, S.M.A.R.T. is going bad and I want to recover as much data as I can. I'm doing that via Live CD, but I need to take ownership of the drive. Could you please guide me into doing that?
ok guys compiz on natty is messed up, cant use the cube mode and stuff
You mean in 11.04?
Yes.
i have an external monitors i use for my display, and powers out with them off (laptop), is there a command i can run from a diff TTY thatll make my GUI TTY move back to laptop screen?
is 11.04 a stable release?
yes
_Neytiri_, i don't know what you mean. you want to log all commands entered in bash? those are already stored in the users history if it is for personal use. or is for an audit/security
yes
Is there an application that easily let's you chose and install themes? I use natty narwhal.
jrib - ill upgrade then thanks
ChronicSyncope can you contact to ubuntu web master for fix this ?
ahhhh
Try sudo service apache2 restart
natty causing unnecessary problems for me!
Retrieving file 9 of 30
Just after installation there can be problems like that
OvidiuZeicu, take ownership? you shouldn't need to just mount the partitions and copy the data
ok.
anyone here know how to deal with performance issues when it comes to flash. with windows, I can easily watch 1080p youtube videos on fullscreen. with youtube, 480 is as high as I can go without it going choppy. and flash games are virtually unplayable.
NO backlight at all after booting!
What are the problems?
compdoc Can you contact to ubuntu web master for fix this ?
gksudo nautilus will give you a file-manager with superuser privileges. Where do you want to save your files to?
someone help
i want to log all commands that happin in bash as they get run, i have several users who are trying to cover there tracks by boming out the shell
Which GPU?
is a geforce 2 mx200 hardware supported to run 11.04?
cdbs, the screen is dead dark
It doesn't work. It won`t let me copy many of them because I'm not the owner.
cdbs, well i dont have a dedicated graphics card...but its an integrated intel onboard gfx card
not found"
Many, but not all, and that is weird.
mah454, that picture you posted doesnt really show the problem, because another window is in the way. I have no problems. what country and site are you trying to open?
screen on laptop is busted, is there anyway to turn it off and set external port as primary monitor from terminal
not by the nvidia driver, only by nv or noveau (the open source ones)
OvidiuZeicu, then sudo your copy command
ServerName 127.0.0.1
OvidiuZeicu, and make sure to use the switch to preserve permissions
compdoc I live in Iran ...
What is Unity's relationship to Ubuntu? Can Unity be installed on other Linux Distributions or is it exclusive to Ubuntu Only?
then run that command again
ok
OvidiuZeicu, cp -aR
cdbs, so i dont know if its a gpu issue, but i know it boots successfully into natty, but screen is dead dark! backlighting does not work
There is some work ongoing to port it to Fedora, they've had quite much success
Does anyone else have the issue that the launcher area cannot be used by other applications? Like there is an overlay which won't let you click through?
roasted_, ubuntu only
mah454, maybe its your government blocking it
sudo rsync -av /media/damaged_drive/ /media/good_drive
Ok, I'll try this one. Thank you. :)
and do they work good enough for basic desktop activities? reliefing/unburden the cpu?
did you upgrade or fresh-install?
mah454, whats the url youre opening?
cdbs, im guessing this is a common issue, unsolved though, because going thru the various forums did not help either
fresh install
escott, sounds like its Ubuntu only just for now
cdbs, fresh install
guys, I'm having trouble installing from CD and DVD - I can not mount /dev/loop0 to //filesystem.squashfs due to an I/O error, can you help?
cdbs, good deal man. I didn't know Fedora was tinkering with it.
Could anyone tell me how long the upgrade from 10.10 to 11.04 will take?
hello. after i installed gnome-shell in ubuntu 11.04 (for gnome 3), even if i login and select ubuntu classic (with gnome 2), i can`t change the theme for taskbars and click2 menu, but only for window borders
So I am looking at -rgba option on fbset, and I see 8/16, 8/8, 8/0, 0,0 as the information
Debian folks were also interested, but they didn't start work (yet)
Polah, 20 minutes
is there any way to kill output to built in laptop monitor and make the secondary screen output primary in terminal
Does it work well from the LiveCD?
no
Polah, took me about 45 mins when I upgraded to the beta a week ago
Alright, thanks.
cdbs, no, i had to install it using nomodeset
Why are most Apps opening maximised when I launch them?!?
Thanks again, I just wanted a general timeframe. Obviously it won't be a specific time for everyone
So does nomodeset work now?
econdudeawesome, fbset may not be the right program but there is bound to be something similar. you could also check if plymouth is a script in which case it would call out to the background setting program. check the gentoo docs they had a period when everyone was configuring framebuffer backgrounds
compdoc in opera is true ... ! firefox have problem !
I don't have a pidgin indicator in the messaging menu anymore (in natty). How can I re-enable it?
i don't know. to use unity you'll need the nouveau driver (which is somewhat 3d capable). nv is fine for the classic desktop. But given that a entry level nvidia card is about 20$/Euros you should consider replacing your card if you really want unity
mah454, try the refresh button
i changed servername to 127.0.0.1 from localhost, and reran the command to restart, same error!
cdbs, when you say debian folks were interested, you're talking about just making unity possible on that platform, not the default, right?
cdbs, nomodeset works, but as you can quite understand, it loads into a lame gnome ui, without any graphics driver, with sick resolutions
why my downloading upgrade so slow? im just now streaming a video from 1 site, and its more faster then the upgrading ubuntu 11.04. anyone have the same?
how can i use zeitgeist
yes, just available, not default (yet)
thanks ill just try it out, otherwise i'll just keep running lxde :)
compdoc i use this ...
compdoc tnx :)
anyone have the same problem as me?
i can select only unity-2d not unity. what do i have to install to have unity in gdm?
cdbs, do you think theyll default it? It sounds like most others were more interested in gnome shell as the default
compdoc I use Opera for this site ... :)
Could anyone help me to get a driver for my wireless card please?
pindropper,  have toy tried reinstalling apache?
cdbs, from what I gathered, at least.
Hi everyone, I am using Ubuntu 10.10. I have tried install Ubuntu 11.04 but I cannot run to install it. When I select "Install",  I get black screen. Do you have any idea how can I install Ubuntu 11.04?
Try running sudo update-initramfs, then sudo update-grub2, then set nomodeset again, then reboot
MrsHillBilly,  what's your wireless card?
I guess the servers are getting overloaded a bit at the moment. Apt-get install is also slower than normal at the moment.
mustafa, i have the same issue, cdbs suggested something to me just now
i just installed it. it was working post install. then i configured site to a new location and all hell broke lose
is there a shortcut to change worskpaces in 10.10/11.04?
conorhogan, yes
They don't have an aim like us. Their main aim is to ship all the desktops out there (Debian) or provide something which is and was very much popular as GNOME (Fedora)
conorhogan, its like CTRL ALT arrow or something
Its a Belkin 7D47EB
smplayer should be default media player in ubuntu
owh, thx for the information mnoyce.
conorhogan, i think it was super+s
awh ... wanted to dist-upgrade to release but apparently nothing to upgrade to yet ... mirrors take forevvvvvver
roasted_ perfect works thanks
pindropper, hmmm did you modify the virtual site file to point to the new location ?
#ubuntu is the Ubuntu support channel, for all Ubuntu-related support questions. Please use #ubuntu-offtopic for other topics (though our !guidelines apply there too). Thanks!
rach0 - what?
its seems like 3 days to upgrade to natty =.=
i think its the vitural site file
better move this discussion to #ubuntu-offtopic
cdbs, my apologies.
conorhogan, nvm
Super+S or Ctrl+Alt+Arrow
what is Super-S?
!natty
cdbs, its enough if i set nomodeset at the grub screen right? for now atleast
Windows Key + S
the 'windows' key on most pcs
ah ok, im on a mac
yep, should be enough for now
yes i did. to /home/myname/public_html
ok , im upgrading, if something fails i want a refund!
Assuming your keyboard has Windows key, of course...
"super key" mean windows key in your keyboard
hi is there any way to disable the appearence of mounted harddrives on the desktop?
That would be a know then... ;-)
pindropper, did u assign the proper premissions
Maybe the "Command" key?
cdbs, awright, thanks am gonna try it and get back to you if it doesnt work :) if it does, pleaase tell me how i can thank you :)
wait 6 weeks until the bugs are ironed out :-)
Give it a try, I'm not sure about it
stefg, I am on beta2 already, works well. just want to upgrade to release
gaara, did you try something and what?
the right command key works for the windows key in windows - for ubuntu looks like ill have to use str-alt arrow - thanks
but in either case, won't do any damage
rach0 Its a Belkin 7D47EB
i dont think there was any permission change mentioned in the doc. so i dint have to do anything as such permission related. but i did check the permissions on the public_html file it has public access
its safe to proceed
hi is there any way to disable the appearence of mounted harddrives on the desktop?
wait for a while, he'll test if a possible fix works
i can select only unity-2d not unity. what do i have to install to have unity in gdm?
pinewhat was the error message again
Hi, I have an issue with ssh access. Ie. am not able to ssh as root to one of my server bcoz its denied in ssh conf. But on this server we have our client application running which is communicating the server through webservices. I want to enble root access ssh. we have option to send a payload script,which will not ask for authentication.can some one tell me how enble root ssh remotely?
not found"
step21. if you did your last update 2 days ago you should be on release level. Except unimportant timezone updates there wasn't much happening yesterday and today
stefg, okay, then I am on release level. thanks for clearing that up
hello. after i installed gnome-shell in ubuntu 11.04 (for gnome 3), even if i login and select ubuntu classic (with gnome 2), i can`t change the theme for taskbars and click2 menu, but only for window borders
i now did sudo pkill apache2 to force shut. how do i restart it. sudo apache2 start doesnt work
pindropper, ok give me a sec to look at some of my files
cool. thanks
ssav, ssh as root is not encouraged, you can always ssh as normal user then sudo and do whatever you want
is ubuntu one free?
pindropper, to start the service again all you should have to do is   sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 start
!ubuntuone
the 11.04 installation disc seems much better than the 10. versions though so its worth downloading.
ok thanks
WHOAAAA the download speed of the release upgrade is going so fast that my pc cant keep up with the enormous lightning speed
root access is denied and normal user login was allowed. but  password has been lost. any way to reset the password ?
burg, this is likely due to gnome3/shell ... try removing it ^^
probl couse unity is fail and we all are running other distros
stfg - thanks
After my upgrade to 11.04 my panel is gone, how to fix?
its like omg 24 kb/s wow!
Joseph_, good to know, but at some other time
ack! wont start either now. same error.
feel free to contribute and run your own mirror :-)
step21, apt-get remove gnome3-shell didn`t fix the problem
lol fast eh? Waiting over an hour for all 208MB of eclipse to download so i can build my first android app!
Killyou, maybe you can try a torrent dl?
pindropper, kk h/o a sec
gogeta, then what are you doing here?
I feel disappointed on 11.04, how to DOWNGRADE to 10.10
that`s you, my speed was about 2.8MB/s
it says 9 hours remaining hehe
burg, any other pkgs that the ppa installed?
sorry. waiting.
how to enable unitz 2d??
you mentioned entering "text" as an option in Grub--when do I do that? At startup or in a config file somewhere?
burg, I heard installing from source worked better with gnome2/unity side by side
Yeah I gave up on downloading the CD and went torrent.
burg, there is a guide on webupd8.org
restore the backup you made before upgrading
how did you invoke "setterm" earlier?
After my upgrade to 11.04 my panel is gone, how to fix?
setterm -background black
"text" is something you would add to your grub line in grub either manually one time to test or in grub's configuration file
what shell do you use?
lazlo, in unity?
is there any shell script to reset the passwd . If so I can send a payload and execute the script
yes
why?
well your better running something like kde these days gtk itsself  has gone downhill after gnome 2 however there is a remix of ubuntu out thats uses gnome 2 on 11.04
yes
ssav, yank the drive, mount on another system, sudo/chroot/passwd
tty1
anyone else noticed a lack of nbr despite there being a link to it from the main site?
lazlo, which panel? you know it looks different, right?
what shell? bash, etc
and has less panel
s
bash
what's nbr
yes, i know, but there is no panel at all
hypetech, netbook remix
not sure. I believe bash. Whichever shell comes native to Ubuntu minimal/server. Not terminal/lxterminal/konsole or anything like that
releases does not have it
ah
lazlo, bout you can log into classic?
that was hardly a flood :p
probably bash since I edited PS1 in .bashrc and was able to see the changes made
Hi, I have an issue with ssh access. Ie. am not able to ssh as root to one of my server bcoz its denied in ssh conf. But on this server we have our client application running which is communicating the server through webservices. I want to enble root access ssh. we have option to send a payload script,which will not ask for authentication.can some one tell me how enble root ssh remotely? or...
they said there is no more netbook version with this release
There is no NBR anymore.
...any shell script to reset the passwd?
hi All :)
k
hypetech, ah thanks
8==D :)
then it should be removed from the page ;)
I restarted and its black now. ALl I needed :-)
I've reported a bug with the link being on the alternate page already.
should be possible, but I'm automatically logged in, so can't get to the login screen
Pici, sweet
just woke up and figured i'd mention it
don't you have ssh access as some other user?
login as your user, get root by 'sudo su -'
especially since we planned on demoing it at lfnw this weekend alongside server and desktop
no lost the passwd
I'm trying to modprobe mdadm, but it doesn't seem to be included on the liveCD (to install).  Is it included or do I have to get the actual installation cd?
pindropper, under etc/apache2/sites-available/ default     did u edit that file to point to the new location (im still new to this as well )
or use grml to preconfigure my drives?
I think i screwed up big time
cdbs, any upfate?
server is in remote loaction..i dont have physical access
cdbs, any update sorry?
does someone know can evolution connect to my hotmail account and grab all my mail messages from the hotmail server ?
lazlo, does alt+F2 do anything?
USB disconnect") after suspend? doesn't seem to matter whether the driver module is loaded while suspending or not..
he hasn't come back yet
same problem here
nope
i just updated to 11.04; turned on desktop cube and now have no panel and no way to access terminal
>_<
I am trying to configure my reliance net connect on ubuntu 10.04 , using wvdial ! I did dmesg but unable to found my usbmodem in the list , please help .
alt+F2 will not work
Oh wait, its working now, wasn't working yesterday
i cp'd the file to /etc/..../sites-available/mysite. then disabled default and enabled mysite. in mysite i changed the dirs to the point to home/myname/public_html
stefg, sudo -i is preferred
if you have access to edit the /etc/ssh/sshd_config then change the PermitRootLogin parameter to Yes
 who can help us with this
elssha, try ctrl+alt+t
hi guys I really love the new Ubuntu 'dock' but I would like to have it 1) at the bottom of the screen 2) never disappearing. I want a proper dock. How can I achieve this?
nothing salt >_<
does someone know can evolution connect to my hotmail account and grab all my mail messages from the hotmail server ?
so you lost all your login data, but want to remote-enable root access ? .... I think there would be much interest in a way to that ...
Try asking that in #zeitgeist
euthymos, you can't move the launcher from what I can gather.
lazlo, try ctrl+alt+F1
I can haz deface ur Wall. :3
Stameni, see if hotmail support pop or imap
euthymos, you can change the behavious using CCSM
Hey guys anyone else having problems connecting to gb.archive.ubuntu.com ?
!ccsm
install 'compizconfig-settings-manager' or 'simple-ccsm'. If you install the latter, a new option will appear in your appearance properties - See also !compiz - Help in #compiz
I think its down
This is a support channel. Please stay on topic.
escott it does
Haz deface, qchn you urchin?!
Google it .
Its a release day, if you can't connect, try another mirror.
While Google is useful for helpers, many newer users don't have the google-fu yet. Please don't tell people to "google it" when they ask a question.
*nick ComradeHaz`
\nick ComradeHaz`
ffs xD
Stameni, then figure out what their pop or imap server is and then fill those details into evo
No, it's just a fake. We're streamin' this Channel on E-Wall. Just kidding. :P
snaki_ that seems to be universal answer to all my question, why than ask it here anyway ?
lol :D
thanks
mmmm, 5Mbps download <3
but i know the root password,since ssh direct access is denied ,am not able to login
any other way to start terminal but alt+F2 or ctrl+alt+t ?
Is it just this quick launch and workspace stuff only?
ssav, if you know the root password you should be able to su
 how u had run that tell me the process
if we torrent the cd, will the upgrade tool automatically install from the cd?
if you know the root password then why can't you login as your normal user and su root?
what's the best way to report a bug? Got a repeat of bug #464064 but for 11.04 :(
I just started it normally
escott, i did that, but i want now that evolution grab all the emails that are on the server to my hard disk
You can easily find it there with step by step instructions so !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
atm i have no panels, no windo boarders apparently no way to access terminal >_<
Just comment on that bug that its affecting you on Natty
escott, like tunderbird do
sudo su - gets you root, with all consequences, sudo -s just gives you a root shell .... try 'gzip </dev/some_device >image.gz' ... won't work with sudo -i , but works after getting root with sudo su -
BTW, #ubuntu-bugs is a channel for bug questions
thanks cdbs; A bit concerning it's still "new" after 2 years tho o.0
ssav, if you cant su because your pam prevents it, and you cant get another login that will allow you to su you are hosed
ya it saves your mail if you want to .
as i said server is in remote location, i have to access via ssh only.
snaki, escott, thank you
 i even dont know abcd if this
hi, I installed Ubuntu 11.04 on my HP G62 laptop which has a VGA of ATI HD 5400, I activated the driver, but seems it's not already activated, please HELP!
 please tell me steps
snaki_ , escott, thanks
I'm alsso waiting for gaara to come back, after that I'll know
I didn't get you. What do you want to do ?
1)SSH in as any user 2) type "su root" 3) type root password   <- this should work unless your system prevents you from su to root
Ask your question in #zeitgeist
Hi can someone help me with setting up IPTables please?
"gzip </dev/some_device >image.gz"  works fine with "sudo -i" here
cdbs k cool
They'll help you with Activity Journal problems
HRT, could you be more specific?
I am trying to configure my reliance net connect on ubuntu 10.04 , using wvdial , i configured it using gnome-ppp did dmesg but unable to found my usbmodem in the list , please help . And when i give /dev/ttyUSB0 for modem detection its not able to detect too !
sanaki_ , escott, thanks ( i allways spell it wrong )
will the distribution upgrade tool automatically install from the cd if I have it in the drive?
other than root onely one user is created, that user passwd we lost..thats the problem
Hi can someone help me with setting up IPTables please I have tried but I keep ending up locking myself out of my server lol
does it? on debian it won't
elssha, you can't boot into classic or into rescue mode?
Hey guys, my video driver is activated but I can't start Unity. Is there any way to fix this? Thanks for the help!
debian sid + ubuntu 10.10, both
no physical access.... but i can send some payloads scripts..
stefg, gzip </dev/sda4 > foo.gz works fine for me in sudo -i
llutz, I have no idea what you mean ...
I was upgrading to natty and my computer shut down because i unplugged it
when I activated the FGLRX, it downloads the drivers, installs it, then it requires to reboot the system, I reboot, but the driver seems not activated, as no single effect runs properly, though, in "Hardware Drivers" says the drivers is activated and currently in use
now it is waiting for disk to be present or manual recovery
can some one helpme out my computer keeps on locking up and its always when ports 35000 to 55000 are active
 debian sid + ubuntu 10.10, both
what do I do?
Just installed 11.04. I no longer have a backlight. Is there a solution?
sry wasnt for you
hit m for manual recovery
stefg, there are differences in things like environment variables for sure
reset the user's password
Stameni:Merci.
so I need a script to reset the passwd ,,, over network i can execute .
I'm running into the exact same issue, but with an Nvidia driver
hey I see that nvidia-96 is in the repository for 11.04, does it allow compiz?
ssav, there is no such thing, it is called security
What's the differenc3e between maverick and maverick-updates?   I already get updates from maverick... curious why there's a separate repo for maverick-updates.
WHat package is it that has GDM go to a login screen?
any ideas on how to manual recover a failed install because of power failure
how to fix it please help
atm i have no panels, no windo boarders apparently no way to access terminal >_< anyone?
my computer powered down and it was installin natty
what do I do?
damn that fucking unity, at this point i could just stick with server version without anything else but terminal
rats!
cordoval_, have you run fsck on the drives?
what level of access does your payload script run at?
HRT, i suggest you remove the fgrlx stuff and go with the open source. i think the binaries are still quite buggy with natty. also there is no problems with the effects using the open source one. i'm with a HD 5500
elssha, did you answer my question from before?
no
what Q?
what the command
why can't you just start over?
how to start over?
I was doing upgrade
Please watch your language and topic to help keep this channel family-friendly, polite, and professional.
cordoval_, reinstall from cd
if I have a natty cd in the drive, will the distribution upgrade tool automatically use it to install the upgrade or is there a procedure I need to follow?
i have only one way to access ,through our application which currently running and have an option to send a payload and excute without login to the server. so i need your help here...pls ..
Hi can someone help me with setting up IPTables please I have tried but I keep ending up locking myself out of my server lol
I was upgrading, have some data
please can you give me abbreviated steps? I'm noob :(
can some one helpme out my computer keeps on locking up and its always when ports 35000 to 55000 are active
what is the command escott, you seem to help a lot
cordoval_, in livecd fsck the drives, you could try and get into a chroot environment and resume the upgrade (assuming its non-bootable and there is no corruption
step21; what Q?
I share the sentiment. Unity is a step backwards, as is Gnome3
ubottu, IdleOne sorry, i'll watch it
I am only a bot, please don't think I'm intelligent :)
thank you.
cordoval_, but it may be easier to just reinstall
Ahh.... bad timing for a power outage... dpkg --configure -a
dpkg configure -a?
ssav, I don't know your application ... you could try scripting passwd, but that only works if you know the password, remotely there is no other way afaik
how do i upgrade to ubuntu 11.04 from 10.10?
elssha, if you can boot classic or in rescue mode
Hi can someone help me with setting up IPTables please I have tried but I keep ending up locking myself out of my server lol
econdudeawesome, i just don't get what guys from canonical were thinking. maybe later in like version 2-3 Unity would be good, but until then i'll probabaly stick with Gnome 2
if u give me the script ,,,,i can execute over netowork
System > Administration > Update Manager
i think you should save your files from the hosed upgrade and do a fresh install...
hiya, when i try to install subversion with apt-get i get stuck at Waiting for headers. HEPL
your update_manager under system->administration can help you with that
dpkg configure -a  error need an action option
well its nice to see the spam bots have dissapeared
how do I do a distribution upgrade using a cd?
HyperShock, why wont just apt-get dist-upgrade do it? :o
hi, when I have a window at "fullscreen" (in unity), why the close, minimize button not clickable, when I'm hitting the top of the screen?
step21; you mean recovery?
you need to use the !alternate cd
look into chpasswd
...
can some one helpme out my computer keeps on locking up and its always when ports 35000 to 55000 are active
yes, almost all applications have been updated
its much faster as well
cordoval_, before doing a bunch of dpkg stuff run fsck /dev/sda? on your partitions from the livecd
no clue, just a user like you, different software. how come you don't want to use the gui?
ok, so I grabbed the wrong torrent, then
anyone else getting a very slow download speed while upgrading?
ok,
elssha, yes
thanks a lot, it worked
cdbs Ok thanks, where do I find this out though? Where did you find this out?
yeah just wait :D
happens :) keep the Live CD torrent also, always good to have as a backup.
I'm using it :)
true :)
step21; i can try, but then i won't be on here.... what do i do once i'm there?
cordoval_, then decide... is it a better use of your time to backup data and reinstall from scratch, or try to continue an upgrade of a potentially hosed system
I don't have a livecd
Howdy, is the Update Manager normally this borked on Ubuntu updates?
hi guys, I've just upgraded from ubuntu 10.10 to 11.04 and have a problem with multicast
that is a no brainer friend, it just went hot in the past 24 hours. Everyone is trying to download it. waiting till the 5th of May would be better dl speed wise.
rats!
i can boot recovery, not sure what classic is
cordoval_, how far can you get in the boot? can you get to command line?
Gaara not back yet :( Well, you can give it a try. What's the exact problem you're facing?
I have a window at "fullscreen" (in unity), why the close, minimize button not clickable, when I'm hitting the top of the screen with the mouse?
I can backup data then but could I just plugin an external usb and fetch it?
ssav, I don't think with your knowledge what you want will work
Can someone help me with IPTables please and setting up for some protection against DDoS
It gives me the option to go to older kernels
do i have to call an indian help ctr?
perhaps I can go into one of them and try reinstalling?
could someone help? It seems that ufw is denying igmpt packets
elssha, so you can't choose to login to classic in gdm?
this is an asus g73
cdbs, it dint work
bummer :P they should make the updater a torrent client and let everyone who's downloading also share the files! dunno how hard that would be to do but I think it would probably be good!
I will go to kernel 27
cdbs, :(
Same problem? :(
i think 28 is natty
!patience > jake_
jake_, please see my private message
rats it can't mount /
elssha, if you are on that pc now, what are you running if nothing works?
rats!
and cats! /
So how did you set nomodeset on livecd?
press s to skip mounting
press M for manual recovery
can I configure somehow the close/minimize/maximize buttons BUT WHEN AT FULLSCREEN?
when I press M
cordoval_, better press M
I get the console
cordoval_, or get a livecd
but now what
 Is there a way to display hard drive activity on my desktop or panel?
I am on the console
cdbs, i waited for sooo long to get natty, and now it acts up like this, i set it on livecd by pressing f6, and then selected the nomodeset option
getting my messages?
cordoval_, thats a busybox terminal
what do I do now?
step21; basically the programs that open at startup work; email, chat, i turned on FF via a link in an e-mail
can some one helpme out my computer keeps on locking up and its always when ports 35000 to 55000 are active
busybox terminal ok
cordoval_, you need to fsck /dev/sda?
can some one helpme out my computer keeps on locking up and its always when ports 35000 to 55000 are active
HyperShock I use CSF is there any documentation or guides using it?
cordoval_, someone told you before what to put into the console to try a recovery, otherwise start the install again
i can do the shift+ctrl+F2 thing
I need some quick help here :) I just updated to 11.04, but when i login i can move for a few secs then everything just freezes. Any ideas? :)
hmm
elssha, but no terminal or alt-F2 and I guess you have auto-login?
can some one helpme out my computer keeps on locking up and its always when ports 35000 to 55000 are active
Anyone has problems with allowing IGMP packets in Natty?
device or resource busy while tryng to open dev/sda
cdbs, its impossible that im the only one having this problem
filesystem mounter or opened exclusively by another program?
too bad, well, did gnome-panel session come up or did unity come up after setting nomodeset?
this 11.04 is going down a treat it seems /sarcasm
Silly Question.... How do I hide the Unity Launcher
cdbs, gnome
what other command I can try to restore it?
How do I hade the Unity Launcher?
It doesn't do that itself?
cordoval_, yeah a corrupt / is going to be a problem... get an install cd
might be related to ipv6
cdbs, when I select Install, I get black screen.
Nope
Still here?
can I configure somehow the close/minimize/maximize buttons BUT WHEN AT FULLSCREEN?
hi ThomasUK
no, i log in normally (log in screen; enter user then pass) step21... that part is fine. alt+F2 does nothing
... just got back from lunch
MichealH, normally it autohides
Install ccsm, type about:config in Alt+F2, set option there
hi sebsebseb
cdavis, does it make a difference that i already have a 10.10 installation on a different drive?
can it be any install disk eg ubuntu 10.10?
cdbs, I do not open liveCD even
just got back to the computer, but I think quite a few people are going to other distro's,  because of 11.04, Unity being a main reason, to be honest
cordoval_, and it would be /dev/sda# for whatever your root partition is
cdbs, does it make a difference that i already have a 10.10 installation on a different drive?
elssha, then log into classic and try to fix things from there
shouldn't make a difference
yeah 11.04 sucks
step21; what's classic?
maybe opensuse
oh you tried it already then?
will work :D
Whatsammatter?
Does anyone know on natty in unity how to get applets on the top bar.  Specifically a stock applet or even a standalone program.
when I get asked to put it on our PXE system I'm going to say.. no :)
And is the problem with nomodeset set is the same as it came while installing?
we tried it in the DC
ThomasUK, no it doesn't it just has bugs as expected, mainly with Unity
can I configure somehow the close/minimize/maximize buttons BUT WHEN AT FULLSCREEN?
Please ask your questions in the channel so that other people can help you, benefit from your questions and answers, and ensure that you're not getting bad advice. Please note that some people find it rude to be sent a PM without being asked for permission to do so first.
PXE system ?
automatic deployment of OS's on servers
i want my old gnome back how can i get it?
sebsebseb Please take the chat to #ubuntu-offtopic.
oh so I should have trieddev/sda1
elssha, where you log in, at the  bottom there is a bar where you can choose to log into an environment that is more like the old version, it should work
In the District of Columbia?
hmm
read ubottu's factoid
err ThomasUK I meant
rats!
it is doing something
oh no
cdbs, it is behaving the same way as it behaved during installation also
wrong
I better get that cd
right yeah, better to stay with 10.04 for the servers, since that's Long Term Support
Hi I am using 10.04 and was wondering when would be the best time to update to 11.04
sfdsafdsafdsa, in the gdm menu select ubuntu classic
how can i install back to old gnome?
"could not download the release notes" < is that ubuntu being overloaded or is my conn being funny?
cordoval_, yep.
then I don't think a lot can be dome
how 11.04 is working guys i am thinking to install it or i should wait for few days more?
can I configure somehow the close/minimize/maximize buttons BUT WHEN AT FULLSCREEN?
thanx ill take alook at that
Select 'ubuntu classic desktop' session at login
sfdsafdsafdsa, you can pick classic gnome on login at the bottom
hey i have installed ubuntu 11.04 and decided i wanted to try out unity.. its fine and all, but im wondering if there is a was to keep compiz enabled, but yet not have it change the windows?
ok I will try 10.10 livecd and I guess I choose to try ubuntu there or what?
step21; ty, i'll try
gotta restart
10.04 server edition to be exact,  since with the desktop you would only get the three years support, instead of the five
ok
login out
I#d wait 6 weeks and do a net-intsall
cordoval_, yeah thats fine to fix the disk
i've got a pretty old dual core which works on i386 in 32bits for now  is it advise to try the 64bits or not????what is the edge of 64 bits?
can I configure somehow the close/minimize/maximize buttons BUT WHEN AT FULLSCREEN?
yeah i know
ok going for it
or you could go Debian or CentOS or something :D
cdbs, do u work for canonical? or u just a fan like me?
lol
I am both
how much ram?
stefg:is there any cause
No package called ccsm :/
does anyone know if skype works right away on 11.04
Also, does anyone know if it's possible to upgrade from 32bit to 64bit? I'd like to do it without nuking /home if possible
cdbs, canonical Uk?
can I configure somehow the close/minimize/maximize buttons BUT WHEN AT FULLSCREEN?
laumonier, grep lm /proc/cpuinfo to see if you have 64bit
ror, no its not
ror, no its not possible
MichealH, it is called something like compiz-config-settings-manager
thanks :(
pm
cdbs, ?
stefg one giga
ror, im stuck with the same problem
yup
compizconfig-settings-manager
ubuntu has never been good at getting releases ready ..... they release at the given date, not when it's /really/ fit for a relaese
what is ror?
Fodi69, not afaik
cdbs do you know how i can have normal windows in unity?
provide support or part the channel. telling people about your personal opinion on Unity is off topic for this channel. If you want to chat you already know about #ubuntu-offtopic. Suggesting people use other distros is also not acceptable for #ubuntu.
gaara, did it work?
I don't think a lot can be done
and also would it matter if it is a 64 machine and it is a 32 bit live cd?
cordoval_, who is ror?
Which GPU?
escott:
mustafa, nope :(
You had to change package names -.-
hmm ok
stick with 32 bit. your rm is precious, and adobe flash is tricky in 64 bit
Normal Windows? Select Ubuntu Classic session at login
cordoval_, you can still boot and run the fsck.
cdbs, ATI Mobility 3650.
thank you,
but why, this ultimately sucks and no config for it?
stefg:ok thanks if you don't mind may you tell what kind or problem will i face if i installed it yet?
weird then. When you click 'Try Ubuntu' what comes?
can I configure somehow the close/minimize/maximize buttons BUT WHEN AT FULLSCREEN?
cdbs ubuntu classic will be unity too?
64bit only makes sense on servers and with >4G ram
cdbs, black screen only
>3G ram
stefg ty for your help
ok it is bootting
I have trouble installing the newest version of Ubuntu Linux. Help with PM.
Fodi69, prob because that's how it makes sense ... in classic you can still configure them
cordoval_, step 1 is going to be fsck. step 2 is to decide between (a) backing up data, downloading disk and reinstalling or (b) trying to boot and resuming the install from console. i would suggest (a)
I guess I should choose the option to try ubuntu
64bit makes sense with anything more then 3gb
also i have 4gb of ram and 64bit supporting hardware shoul di go for 64bit
blame flash for being crashy
Fodi69, also, don't spam
Oh.  Natty was officially released.  /That's/ why it's so busy in here.
well in unity the top of the window turns orange and transparant instead of dark grey like normal
jiltdil, its not just about ram, there are also more registers and sse extensions in 64bit
how to go for b
mustafa, what about for you?
sounds easier
yeah, but this way it is UNUSABLE......
cordoval_, ask about (b) AFTER you do the fsck please
screenshot please, I can't understand
ok
I have not tried something yet.
2 sec
unity is fail but shhh
I will do fsck /dev/sda1
gaara, I have not tried something yet.
I got the default
escott:please tell me
cordoval_, and (b) is substantially harder and may not result in a working system
rats
How's Ubuntu 10.04?
11
then why forcing it? :(
I meant that
sorry
Fodi69, I find it quite usable. like I said if you want the old one back choose classic at login
Ubuntu 11.04 freeze for me. :(
couse cannel cant let go of gtk
What's wrong with Unity?
mustafa, do u have an intel gfx card?
gaara, no ATI.
ray_, ubuntu 10.04 is tip top, while ubuntu 11.04 ain't yet
is unity better than gnome?
 its differnt then what people are used to.
jiltdil, the wikipedia page on AMD64 is pretty informative. most developers are going 64bit, but some software (adobe flash) works a little better in 32bit
if you do lots of number crunching (video encoding) 64 bits might pay off, but for a standard desktop system 32-bit with pae will be more convinient
 try it out. decide for yourself.
jiltdil, depends on personal preference
no but gnome 3 is fail to sooo
I guess Unity is more user-friendly...
I like Unity a lot, but I am not used to it yet.
this layout is kind of nice, but fucking buggy and unusable :(
Unity at the moment goes on top of Gnome 2, another interface for it, but for the next one, it will go on top of Gnome 3 instead of using their interface by default Gnome Shell
now I open a terminal on the ubuntu 32 and type fsck /dev/sda# so the # is not going to be 1
64bits gives me a decent improvement in the video reencoding I do.
thanks to all
is going to be something else I hope it can at least mount it
yes and do it for all your partitions
Please mind your language.
I think I should wait first
rats!
oh ok
thanks escott!
cordoval_, you may need to sudo
o/
yes will do
did you get your answer yet?
 * cdbs looks
Fodi69, taste varies I guess. anything specific that you don't like (not that I can do anything about it)
its been buggy and unstable sense the day they launched it in 10.10
why? it is lovely!
which theme are you using?
!wtf
Can anyone give me ftp address to download ubuntu iso?
default
cordoval_, you may want it to automatically fix any errors it finds in which case fsck -p
hey, I just upgraded to 11.04, messed around with my nvidia graphics settings and now cannot get into my box!
no its awefull
can anyone assist?
yup I know but sometimes ubottu is a little too impersonal. :)
upgrade is so slow... 50kb/s ;/
Try running unity --reset from Alt+f2, if that doesn't fix it then re-check theme settings and make sure its ambiance
is 11.04 a LTS release?
better they fork gnome 2 call it there own
Usually, there is no single "best" application to perform a given task. It's up to you to choose, depending on your preferences, features you require, and other factors. Do NOT take polls in the channel. If you insist on getting people's opinions, ask BestBot in #ubuntu-bots.
no
so the command I should run is fsck -p /dev/sda#?
i keep getting message 'tempory failiure in name resolution'
rather then trainwreck the distro with unity
for each partition
3.1.2.2. Partition layout and types
when I go to fullscreen, the minimize/maximize/close buttons can't be reached by a fast mouse move, must play with it....
so the command I should run is fsck -p /dev/sda#? for each partition
do the math, if 11.04 went hot today, and everyone is downloading it, say 100,000+ people, how sucky do you think the bandwidth will be?
In what folders does the Dash search for files?
servers overloaded
cordoval_, good practice to see your errors first before you start correcting them, but yes
gogeta, this is support and I'm not really hre to get into that argument
Guys, how do i install gnome3 in 10.10?
LTS means Long Term Support. LTS versions of Ubuntu will be supported for 3 years on the desktop, and 5 years on the server. The current LTS version of Ubuntu is !Lucid (Lucid Lynx 10.04)
HyperShock, no
Eduard, ppa or compile, google is your friend
Heh, I've upgraded to 11.04 but I can't get the Super / Win key working on Compiz. It just shows up as Multi_key. I've tried changing the keyboard options for Win key behaviour but to no avail, but binding Caps Lock with Super does work. Any help? I'm using a Logitech MK520 keyboard.
rats livecd is slow in loading
I made the math ;)... i upgraded my other distro before it went live (beta2) and it was ALOT faster haha... should have upgraded my main also ;/
cordoval_, that way you know that if it reports lots of errors on /usr/lib/libglib or some such that your libglib is hosed
wonder why this is an asus g73
there's a ppa :)
i'll get a link hold on
sebsebseb, for what?
tried googling it already, i only get results pointing to test ppa. Gnome3 was already released, i need to find a stable one
!hoary
October 31, 2006. See !eol for more details.
youre a hero :)
oh wrong person
were you asking in regards to gnome?
gaara, cdbs, no solution?
there's a Gnome 3 ppa, i'll get al ink
!eol > Hedgehog456
Hedgehog456, please see my private message
gaara  mustafa Okay, I gotta go, bye
cdbs is also the poster child for Ubuntu ;)
cdbs, thanks
ah dang cdbs it worked then falled back
ok, thanks
mustafa, am gonna try downloading the dvd and seeing if it works
Eduard, there is a gnome 3 ppa for ubuntu but it's far from stable, use it at your own risk
Edgan, I don't think there is a stable one. webupd8.org has links to ppa and to compile, apparently compiling works better with a running system
just got livecd working
ok
anyone know how to enable visual effect in Natty? that option is missing from System->Appearance
Eduard, have heard from some that it breaks unity
I knew i had not bought an asus g73 for nothing
gaara, ok
because to get the hard disk monitor on your panel, simply right click the panel you want the monitor on, choose add to panel, then select and add, system monitor. when it appears on the panel, right click it and choose configure, there you can add the hard disk and much more.
rats!
alguien sabe como eliminar la leyenda que aparece arriba de la cuenta regresiva del grub asi como el marco? :þ
gaara, can you share the link?
i'm on 10.10 gnome 2.32
with the Gnome 3 ppa, you don't quite get the 100% proper full expereince, that you would get in other distro's that use it by default, but well if it works, should be ok enough for now
En la mayoría de canales de Ubuntu se habla sólo en inglés. Si busca ayuda en español o charlar entra en el canal #ubuntu-es. Escribe "/join #ubuntu-es" (sin comillas) y dale a enter.
for the dvd?
Eduard, ok sorry
cordoval_, please keep your comments to information not "rats!" we have lots of traffic on here
can anyone help me get to a console and change my nvidia xserver settings, I changed something and cannot get into the graphical environ now
HyperShock, ok, the sys monitor description didn't mention HD activity, thanks.
I wonder if I reinstall ubuntu if it will keep my data intact
IdleOne, thanks but, she m4v ban me, I don't know :S
yw
i understand that :). So, you checked the link to ppa?
rats! ok escott, sorry rats! is like to convey frustration
hi all
if my current maverick version is 32-bit, and I'm installing 64-bit natty, will it read my /home? (I have a separate /home partition)
where would I put the "text" option in the Grub2? I'm looking over the documentation and it is not clear to me
ok, in the channel please speak in English
when I want to ugread to 10.10 from 10.04
chadi, no it wont
this*
it always aborts
cordoval_, depends on how things are configured, i understand you are frustrated but the channel is not the appropriate place we have 1800 people on it, and multiple conversations
at the end of the grub line (next to "splash")
you'll have to remap the home directory in afterwards
yeah just got a  bit of a browser issue, hold on
I meant to say *kernel* line
So Unity doesn't support nvidia 7 series? weird cause it works in my laptop and netbook.
hi =) Questions. What is the shortcut to go between workspaces ubuntu 11.04
anyhelp
anyone here using ATi with natty?
anyone here experiencing backlight issues with natty?
sure I will, but is there a 32-bit / 64-bit move problem?
so the GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT = "spash quiet text"?
Please don't ask to ask a question, simply ask the question (all on ONE line and in the channel, so that others can read and follow it easily). If anyone knows the answer they will most likely reply. :-)
sure
stREaKer, me
ctrl - alt - arrow keys
no
which driver are you using?
i would say only if you have 32bit custom programs residing in it, you may need to recompile them
jrib, are u facing no backlight problem? i have the same thing
is there an install client for 7zip?
open source
here goes :-)
ah, very nice thanks!
what's that a reasasonbly new Nivida card or?
thank you
That's not a good idea.  Who knows whether a web site is malicious?
jrib:should i install 11.04 or wait some days?
Senix - yes, just use the software center and search for 7zip
 my problem also got solved man
11.2 wont load up dont know why ? and what do you mean open source?
not sure if I find the partition that my disk is in
I meant "no" as in we can't check
how to figure it out the partition of my drive
Hi, How I can enable Unity in 11.04_
_
?
When I am trying to upgread from 10.04 to 11.04 , it aborts while downloading new packages
also have you got a propitary Nivida driver installed or not?
Hi. I have a UCK modified Ubuntu Live CD. A bug in UCK (or a bad interaction with my setup) mean I can't complete my customizations. Can I do them manually?
you got to go through 10.10
in Opera and I think firefox, you can get an addon called WOT (web of trust), it will tell you very aptly if a website is malicious
stREaKer, i mean the default driver that comes with the installation, no fglrx stuff
Can I upgrade from 11.04 BETA to the final version, or do I have to re-install?
cordoval_, cat /proc/partitions will tell you all partitions, where / vs /boot vs /home might be is something you will have to remember
do i want to upgrade to do a fresh install
gaara, I am leaving now
I will leave it to you to check strigoi66's web site.
gaara, thank you
kwtm wot only works if people rank the site
sebsebseb, Im installing 11.04 from cd right now, and its taking forever to d/l files. liekly because of all the uers doing the same thing
If you install a development version of Ubuntu Natty and keep up with package updates, then you will be upgraded to the official release of 11.04 when it comes out. To make sure, type « sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade » in a console.
I am upgreading to 10.10 (my bad)
how do I make my dock stick so it does not autohide.  There is no "settings" that i can find for it ubuntu 11.04
however even so ^ it may be a great idea to re install, to make 100% sure you have the proper expereince
varunvyas, does it say why is aborts?
pl
laptop screen busted can only see half of screen, is there anyway to shut off the screen and make external vga port primary monitor from terminal
ok
if you are using linux to surf, what is the max risk you are worried about?
it has only loop0, sda, sda1, sda2, and sd5
it says not able to download packages
and gives set of pacakges
 the xrandr tool perhaps. it may depend on your video chipset. My BIOS settings on my laptop also have such a setting.
yeah the repo's tend to be slow on release day
it has little information
anyone able to help out with unity not loading? drivers is ok. but standard session does not load unity after uninstalling unity-2d
sebsebseb, mine is 7 series so it is old, and yes i have the proprietary driver installed (version 270) i have to use ubuntu classic with no effect bc unity and ubuntu classic freeze my desktop.
 servers are taking a heavy load right now.
The Ubuntu repositories and ISO mirrors are currently under heavy load. Please consider using !torrents to download ISO images, and be patient with APT updates.  Also, try changing !mirrors
I am doing it again , will capture exact error this time
Wasn't it suppose to be that 11.04 had Unity as default desktop?
stREaKer, can you explain what's the problem with booting in Natty
actually, does anyone know of a UCK-dedicated IRC room?
Live cd - just loaded the gnome classic desktop here. :() No Unity. heh.
ok bingo, sounds like me with the Beta 2, but I found out about a little trick, to get Unity working, when the propritary driver freezes that may also work for you
cordoval_, well fsck sda1, sda2, and sda5 (although 5 is probably a swap partition), do you remember how you configured your partitions
Dr_Willis, Same problem here.
PC wont boot up in normal mode and in recovery mode with no GFX it boots
hey i think the site needs a good fixing
Proberly due to my vdieo card not having 3d support perhaps.
Dr_Willis, like whole Unity does not exist at all.
I already did that
i was on 11.04 beta, and today no updates at all, is it ok? :)
./default_policy.sh does not support version" error am facing which installing the driver
Dr_Willis, how do i run that xrandr, and im running and ati radeon 1200x with amd turion tl60 processor if that helps
Dr_Willis, my does have but I can not enable Unity anyway.
oh rats sorry required sudo
okay, so I managed to get terminal working... now how do I restore the panel the way it was in 11.04?
remove the propritary driver from additional drivers, and then the experimental 3D support driver should show, install that, and it is more likely to work for you :)
 sounds like you are uyo to date.
i want to connect via remote desktop to a ubuntu 10.10 machine from my machine running ubuntu 10.10
Does anyone have a working link to 11.04 netbook version?
you will probably have to reconfigure your x server
*torrent
which package should i install on my machine ?
sebsebseb, ahhh cool will try dat, thanks bro
Hi, I'm having some slight problems with my new 11.04 upgrade.
how do I go about doing that?
so release day doesnt mean new updates will be ? :)
vncviewer does not work
there isn't one anymore, because Unity is now for both netbooks and Desktop
Trying to understand "df -h" compared to what I see in "computer" in nautilus. I have 3 drives, 1T main drive booted up on-SATA also with 31G Windows partition., 2 IDE drives 10G 20G. GUI shows this. Can only see the subparts of 1T filesystem in df --- thanks
Basically, I can't find a program to change the settings of Dash
sda1 is clean
however Unity should be able to detect when it's running on a netbook or desktop, and then be slightly differnet as well
you should be able to do it from the recovery mode option in grub
stREaKer, do you have the fglrx driver installed?
timjk, rdesktop for windows style, various vnc clients, and ssh -X for the traditional unix approach
if you cant get that let me dig out that sudo command
 ive often insgtalled the beta. then updated the day befor release.. then dont update till a week after its released.. servers are to overloaded for that week
and would be interested to know if that works for you :)
Dr_willis:i have nvidia gefore 9400GT does it supports 3D for natty?
 no idea.
How do i access grub on bootup?
hi, I just updated to 11.04, but at the end of the update (I'd say it was around the 80% of the package installation step) my pc hanged with a blinking caps lock led. Now, whenever I boot it, I get a blinking caps and the pc hangs. My machine is a Lenovo T61, my network card is an intel 4965 (It seems to be related, at least that's what I found out googling)
i just generated a key for my SSH shell account! the next time that i tried to log in it asked me for a 'passphrase' and it didn't ask me for my account password!! so now what is the diffrent between it and my password? as if I just changed a new password for my account? isn't it? "generating a Key" what is it use for?
I did an upgrade no fresh istallation and yes i had it and it has crashed yet again
sd2 is fsk.ext2 attempt to read block from filesystem resulted in short read while trying to open dev sda2
Any help?
which vnc client to install ?
could this be a zero-length partition?
 i noticed the addational drivers tool. does not list anything for theis Nvidia Gefoirce 6150 I got.
anyone know how to restore the panel in 11.04?
sudo Xorg --configure
where do i find the options...am already booted in ubuntu 11.04
!reset-panel
-p would not fix that
thanks
!resetpanel
« gconftool --recursive-unset /apps/panel && killall gnome-panel »
Thanks!
Usually, there is no single "best" application to perform a given task. It's up to you to choose, depending on your preferences, features you require, and other factors. Do NOT take polls in the channel. If you insist on getting people's opinions, ask BestBot in #ubuntu-bots.
I wonder if that works in 11.04 - proberly does
Dr_Willis, thanx :)
quit
how do i ssh into a computer behind nat?
stREaKer, alright boot in recovery and sudo apt-get remove --purge fglrx fglrx_* fglrx-amdcccle* fglrx-dev* xorg-driver-fglrx
sebsebseb, oki dokiee, brb
this is serious businsess
cordoval_, could be an extended partition, check gparted and see what it says it is
trying to get the link for you now, but
binoy, you need to forward the ssh port in your router
stREaKer, then restart X
is there a factoid yet for the new help site by the way?
hi, I just installed ubuntu, I installed graphic card-drivers and when I rebooted, I lost gnome pannels, any idea of how to recover them?
ohk
you still need a script for that ssh issue?
which help site? askubuntu?
i have no access to router
yep that one
not sure.
binoy, then you cant do it
it is sda1 huge amount
am I gauranteed that /sbin/mdadm will start after installing or do I need to chroot and add it somehow?
hi all
oops
i just generated a key for my SSH shell account! the next time that i tried to log in it asked me for a 'passphrase' and it didn't ask me for my account password!! so now what is the diffrent between it and my password? as if I just changed a new password for my account? isn't it? "generating a Key" what is it use for?
how to change permission of a partition?
but it says now it is clean
in ubuntu one is bug with formating text
if you go to the askubuntu help site, and find the instructions for installing GNome 3, that's what you want.  with the beta 2 I used wrong instructions on another site, and ended up with a cross between Gnome 2 and Gnome 3 instead
sda1
help please, how to restar gnome pannels?
how to upgrade ubuntu from 11.04 beta to  new 11.04 ?
binoy, thats not entirely true, you would have to have someone on the target machine start a connection to the outside though, so for all intents and purposes its not possible
 what filesystem is the partition?
I will check them with gparted since it is gui
!support > sebsebseb
sebsebseb, please see my private message
and see what happens
« gconftool --recursive-unset /apps/panel && killall gnome-panel »
where can I find how to do a screenshot ?
anyone knows?
thanks I will check them with gparted
ext4
okay
 try alt-f2 and  run gnome-panel
cordoval_, and can you confirm with gparted that sda1 was a large ext4 and that sda2 was extended with sda5 the logical inside which was swap
anyone know how to enable desktop effects in natty / classic?
 mount it. and chmod/chown the mountpoint (which will actually be chown/moding the root of the filesystem)
it used to be under Preferences->Appearance
Uhm
Anyone know?
confirmed
So, uh, changing DASH's settings?
you are confirmed in all you said
no answer?
What's your problem?
i just generated a key for my SSH shell account! the next time that i tried to log in it asked me for a 'passphrase' and it didn't ask me for my account password!! so now what is the diffrent between it and my password? as if I just changed a new password for my account? isn't it? "generating a Key" what is it use for?
so checking now sdad1
dangit, I forgot to check for previous versions in apt. Is it possible to specify the previous version of gnome for installation or is this new design in 11.04 the only version of gnome I can use?
 check some of the blog sites like OMGubuntu for  Unity tips and tricks perhaps.
uh?
I have changed some nvidia settings and now my graphical environment loads to the login page but after that it just sits with the busy mouse icon.  Please help
drag and drop the folder you want to the left pane.
cordoval_, ok now you have to decide, your options are the easy route of backing up your important data and reinstalling from scratch, or the challenging/may not work/may seem to work but secretly be broken method or trying to resume the install
that should create a shortcut
if by groups you mean folders, then drag and drop a folder of your choosing on the side panel
you sold me on a
is there a factoid yet for the new help site by the way? … i need to scrolldown fully :D
i just generated a key for my SSH shell account! the next time that i tried to log in it asked me for a 'passphrase' and it didn't ask me for my account password!! so now what is the diffrent between it and my password? as if I just changed a new password for my account? isn't it? "generating a Key" what is it use for?
!support has a link to askubuntu is what vish was saying
should I try to restart laptop just in case perhaps it works?
Uuuh, no idea
WHAT is the difference between UBUNTU FOR Business and the normal version???
thanks for the link
yeah,  as you can see above gave that factoid to Eduard  who wants the Gnome 3 install instructions
probably official support
ah, cool.
it doesn't work
cordoval_, you could try. if you need to do a backup and don't have an external drive you can resize the sda1 partition and add a partition after it for your backup
that's something else, if there isn't a factoid yet for installing Gnome 3 from the ppa, there should be really I think :)
I tried both and nothing
!gnome3
^
how to see my files from here though
Servers okay now?
i can plug a usb drive
Johan2, and you added the public key to .ssh/authorized_keys on the target machine
how to do it?
but how to move the files if I cannot see them
oh nevermind went to places
It's not I that have the problem
it is mounting now
last time I looked the ppa site itself,  wasn't really helpful on how to install it, but  someone suggested the askubuntu link for it, and that was good
 do what? this channel is going by so fast my history buffer is gone.
any idea of how to recover my pannels?
My problem is my inability to find a goddamn way to change the settings of dash
Johan2, sorry meant rimo0
evenin all
the ppa page has the instructions to install a ppa, what is missing there?
that*
 run gnome-panel  via the apt-f2 feature perhaps.. or try that resetpanels factoid commands.
open ccsm and click on unity
if you find a configuration tool with more than two radio buttons, let me know
how to change permission of a partition
Hi, in Natty is there a way to disable the auto-maximize of the browser upon open when in Unity?
I tried both and nothing
escott, i tried running "sudo iwconfig wlan0 mode Auto" but I get "SET failed on device wlan0 ; Invalid argument." ?
 you dont.. You change permissions on the FILESYSTEM on the partition.
 mount it. and chmod/chown the mountpoint (which will actually be chown/moding the root of the filesystem)
the panel optiosn are in ccsm?
well with beta 2, there was  something about it,  when I was there
LAcan, do you have a wlan0
escott, yes
or does that not include menu item customization? I can't seem to add launchers to it. Pretty sure I"m just doing it wrong.
I'll try a thing
LAcan, not sure... could be a driver issue
 * sebsebseb thinks the channel number right now is a bit disapointing not 2000 or so, oh well :D
yes
where do I add entries for the name resolution of other computers on my network? In my hosts file?
escott, is there a way I can just restart it and let ubuntu do the config as if it was a rebbot/logout ?
or will samba auto add this for me?
to add a launcher, just open the program, then when it shows up right click on it in the dock and click add launcher
thats a GOOD sign, less problems requiring support ;p
ah ha! thanks
hello
Does anyone know if there's any way to turn off the "Apps for Download" list thingy?
i hope i'm wrong but to me it seems that natty ships with a stone-age lirc (0.8.7) that is NOT compatible with nattys lirc kernel drivers?
 i dont think samba will auto do that.
does anyone know the modes for an intel 345ABGN ?
LAcan, you could see if there is a service that manages the network. you could even restart the network service, or unload/reload the modules
hello. How can I enable unity after installing display drivers ?
With groups I meant the Personal, Devices etc.
it's a script, look at it and see what it's doing
 try the service command perhaops? perhaps you need a sudo in there also..
this is likely unrelated but it is a good idea to use "service", not /etc/init.d
i don't understand 5 minutes ago it was running
one moment
once the drivers are installed, Unity should be selected by itself, if not , select it from the login screen.
I would like wubi to install ubuntu 11.04 and not 10.04. I have already tried to run and install wubi with 10.04 but it failed; are there any files I have to cleanup first?
sburjan`, finally you can try unity --replace
also check if something is written to the logs
ubuntu netbook 10.04 I mean
but there aren't process
proq, I think wubi is not quite ready for 11.04
if I use apt-get -d install package, that will download the package but not install it right ?
what happens when you try to browse to it?
!lirc
yes i done killall
 check its logs -  check its configs to be sure it is logging. :)
"no process"
no lirc for you
is there a way to remove the "Workspace Switcher" button on the Unity launcher menu?
damiano__, check your /var/log as well perhaps it is closing immediately because of misconfiguration
Now it is stuck as measuring battery
hypetech what you mean with "browser" ?
right click on it
nope
nvm
checked logs?
Anyone's Natty stuck at that battery command on start up?
basically I need to backup the dsktop and my sites
Servers okay now?
no error inside
cordoval_, all that stuff is in /home
hmmm
hmmm, true
Can anyone give me ftp address to download ubuntu iso?
stREaKer, can you get to terminal?
but my configuration
but that I can redo
I am getting this when trying to upgrade
PicPaste
ubuntu-OdtsGDtF.png
that was interesting
why does my upgrade manager say "Could not download release notes. Please check your internet connection." and not update, i had it updating earlier but it got halfway through and then stopped?, should i try the terminal? i am connect to the internet though, hmmmm
i think there are some permission problem
I can start up only in recovery mode
i check thank you guys
ok, thanks
The Ubuntu repositories and ISO mirrors are currently under heavy load. Please consider using !torrents to download ISO images, and be patient with APT updates.  Also, try changing !mirrors
hi, I have problems after upgrading to natty.. ufw blocks igmp packets, so I am not able to receive data from multicast addresses using vlc. After disabling ufw everything works fine.. can someone help?
does anyone know how to add a new widget to the unity top toolbar?
ubuntu i only see my desktop, no menus at all
you cant add applets to top panel
johnjaylward, deeeeeeeeet
try to install compiz package
johnjaylward, define widget
stREaKer, go into terminal and type in sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86
How much RAM do you have?
I was almost at the installation process using the LiveCD but it crashed so I force quitted the installation app.  Now when I click on "Install Ubuntu 11.04" it doesn't bring up any dialog
its stuck on that battery command during start up
is there any other way to start it?
:/
@ubottu ok then sure thing, this is good and bad news isnt it, good that ubuntu is popular, and bad that the servers cant cope :)
in 10.10 I used to have a performance monitor widget in the top panel that showed memory/cpu usage as well as temperatures
do u have any idea about my question?
it disapeared on upgrade to natty with unity
as a mentioned, you cant :)
"sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86"
 basicaslly those applets got removed..  :) theres alternative indicator-applets youmay want to check out.
"Package `xserver-xfree86' is not installed and no info is available.
"
4GB
Are there md5 hashes posted somewhere for 11.04?
HELP!! i just generated a key for my SSH shell account! the next time that i tried to log in it asked me for a 'passphrase' and it didn't ask me for my account password!! so now what is the diffrent between it and my password? as if I just changed a new password for my account? isn't it? "generating a Key" what is it use for?
rimo0, you need to put your pub key in the auth_keys file on the target machine, and enable auth_keys login in sshd_config on target machine
sebsebseb, ok bro unity works with the experimental driver but the screen contrast and colour are not as crisp if i use the regular nvidia driver. do you know how to fix it? thanks
 the OMGubuntu blog site has a list of them.
I already have compiz installed
I just updated to 11.04, but when i login i can move for a few secs then everything just freezes. Any ideas? :)
Strange.
how to disable compiz by terminal?
i even rm -rf .gnome* and .gconf* so it should be clean
 try 'metacity --replace'
I have nothing in the login screen. I can only shut down computer, restart, etc ...
rimo0, it may also be that your local keyring is asking for the password to your keyring
sburjan`, huh?
i did that but i just wanted to know that what is the different about the a pub key and password?
!torrent
it doesn't work, it says 'unable to open x display'
how do I fetch the packages from the repos without installing them ?
rimo0, properly configured you can use ssh -i key.pub and not have to worry about passwords
there is already one running." But my theme is like windows 95
anyone know how to manually edit gconfs on a Live CD?  For booting purposes only, this CD, not install.
apt-get --download-only install  <pkgname>
can anyone tell me what version of rubygems comes with the new 11.04? or, tell me how to check that myself (before upgrading of course)
anyone knows how to disable compiz from a terminal, or how to prevent openning it automatically in ubuntu-session-start? from a tty if possible please, because I can't open an x session
man apt-get
hello someone can listen me about a problem installing natty on raid 0 ?
kwtm, same as apt-get -d install ?
hello guys, I've decided to install 11.04 over my opensuse install, keeping my home partition, but ubuntu installer doesn't recognize logical volumes and treats it as a one big partition
rimo0, so the server has a private key which it can use to authenticate any client who has the matching public key
Yes, -d is short for --download-only, but if I say "-d" then they'll say "what does -d stand for?"
kwtm, I did man it, but the output was unclear saying it needs
I can't reach my linux partitions from live session too
thanks McShane , I found that just now
so how can I change the shortcuts found in the dash on unity?
how do you add more workspaces in unity?
how can I do it?
anyone knows how to disable compiz from a terminal, or how to prevent openning it automatically in ubuntu-session-start? from a tty if possible please, because I can't open an x session
kwtm, the output still says it needs etc amount of space after installation, so I wanted to make sure
sburjan`, you don't have a panel anywhere?
hello guys
so what should i use that when i have got a secure password? i can't underestand!!
back again
anyone know how to restore the panel on 11.04?
CCSM, General Settings, look for vertical and horizontal desktop size (IIRC)
I have the same problem
It assumes that you will manually install, so it will still tell you how much space it takes when you manually install.
rimo0, because ssh key is thousands of characters, passphrase is 8
kwtm, see, now it's clearer :) thanks
Hello, how do I make a bootable USB in Ubuntu
Interface looks exactly like the previous ubuntu. It has a windows 95 feeling also
I'm currently running ubuntu 10.04 lts. do-release-upgrade says nothings available?
bloublou; i doubt it.. i killed it by activating desktop cube in compiz
look for Unetbootin
1) LTS only show other LTS by default and 12.04 isnt out yet. you can change this in software sources 2) you cant go from 10.04 to 11.04 directly
sburjan`, did you get a message about your graphics hardware not being powerful enough (this is 11.04 right?
Are there md5 hashes posted somewhere for 11.04?
You need to mount the volume on your live session.  From a terminal, you'd type a command *similar to* (don't quote me exactly) "sudo mount /dev/sda2 /path/to/mount/point" or something similar.  Or there may be a way to do it with GUI, but I am not familiar with that.
No, I need to make a bootable Windows installation USB
I want 10.10, how can I upgrade to that?
all I have in the login screen is Universal Access Preferences
see #1 in what i said
you want to boot Windows from a USB?
also, my emerald won't work -_-; I'm stuck with no window boarders (close button, etc)
oh thanks didn't know that I should mount it manually, thanks
change the update settings in the software sources config thing
sburjan`, confused... now you are at the login screen?
alright...
Come to think of it, there may be a more user-friendly way to do it, but I'm just letting you know that it is possible.
Yes
suburjan; you type in your user name, click okay then at the bottom it will show up
I logged off :)
threw me for a loop as well
Ask in ##windows
so, anyone know how to restore panel?
ok
so far as I'm aware, Windows doesn't allow that - that's what I've been told myself.  I don't think it's possible in Win 7 either
and how to get emerald to come back >_>
hello, can anyone tell me how to separate home partition becauze for now i had everythink in one partition
yes. I have selected Ubuntu. What should I select in order to enable Unity ?
sirgad, it is possible... not that i know how
Why do you want a separate /home/? You don't need one to re-install preserving /home/.
In the alternate downloads -> bit torrent download section, there are two 10.04.2 Desktop i386 links, but no 10.04.2 x86_64 desktop link
THank you
that idk; was just telling you that the options don't pop up until you type in your usr name
sry
how do you upgrade from alpha ?  update-manager -d ?
If you install a development version of Ubuntu Natty and keep up with package updates, then you will be upgraded to the official release of 11.04 when it comes out. To make sure, type « sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade » in a console.
FloodBot1,2,3, and 4 are all bots, please direct your questions to the channel.
anyone know if there's a way to *down*grade from 11 to 10?
I noticed that bununtu 11.04 is not displaying top menu of a number of apps, anyone else having that problem?
Elssha, no
too bad
if I started upgrading to 11.04 but I have no time, can I cancel it and continue later ? (its on "Getting new packages" its not on "Installing the upgrades")
thanks Jordan_U
Move your mouse to the top of the screen and you will see the menu bar.
destinydriven, they are supposed to appear in the panel on top, some are a little finicky
I typed, now I have several options. Ubuntu is the selected one and I still got windows 85 :)
I already have RAID set up from a previous installation, but it thinks /dev/md0 and /dev/md1 are entire devices, not just partitions
Yes.
But not if it starts installing them.
You're welcome.
format + reinstall ?
escott, modes is "Managed" on an intel
this works with some but not others
85 ?? huh
was hoping to keep all my other mods neckoox >_<
Aptana 3 (release) is one example
Pici, ok, tnx ..its still on downloading
85, 95, you get the picture
so no way to return the panel?
destinydriven, there is plugin for firefox check synaptic for unity firefox something
:/ elssha
sburjan yeah =)
destinydriven, its like unity integration or some such
I'm gonna reinstall
what's the story with 11.04?  I heard talk of crashing with betas... is that what people are seeing with the release version?
jdahm, that seems normal
l
ok thanks, but why firefox, I have no problems with ff
... and here i was happy i got to go to 11.04 without having to redo all the settings
 * LAcan nods at alienware
trying to work out if I like this unity thing...but we're running with full speed and stability at the moment CaneToad
:D
cane; mine worked fine until i wanted the stupid cube back -_-;
destinydriven, is it openoffice? its usually one of those two. sometimes it also gets confused if i alt-tab too much
Aptana Studio 3
hmm it seems like if I manually format the device with mkfs.ext4 /dev/md0 it lets me use it as a "partition"
weird
you talking about compiz ?
So, anyone try to run ccsm in unity?
Elssha, just install ccsm...
what's that?
ccsm?
is it really so that natty ships with a stone-age lirc (0.8.7) that is NOT compatible with nattys lirc kernel drivers?
jdahm, yeah they are logical devices so that seems normal
I just updated to 11.04, but when i login i can move for a few secs then everything just freezes. Any ideas? :) Also i can't access to grub by pressing esc :/
jdahm, the installer may not be familiar with them
CompizConfig Settings Manager
what if I want it to just use the entire device without repartitioning it?
destinydriven, you download apatana from outside
so it is that complicated.... Unity is going to take some getting used to.. heh. Thanks.
I did
!info lirc natty
infra-red remote control support. In component main, is extra. Version 0.8.7-0ubuntu4 (natty), package size 532 kB, installed size 2652 kB
I guess I'll just do it my manual way.  Seems hacky however.  In any case I have to wait for mdadm to sync these drives in /dev/md1
Hey guys... I'm upgrading from 10.04 all the way up to 11.04... Am I going to run into issues or should it be really easy? (besides all the medibuntu stuff lol)
does anyone know how to install vistualbox on backtrack
yep
should I reinstall it on 11.04. I had it from 10.10
im trying to download a torrent but it sasy the filename is too long... anyone know the option in Transmission or another fix?
is unty just a new default option... like can you use gnome if you want to?
neckoox; yes... I upgraded from 10.10 to 11.04 ... in CCSM i tried to enable cube again, gave me an error but (stupidly, i know) I figured it was one of the ever-present 'the shortcut for X is same as shortcut for Y' things and okayed it
jdahm, you could install in degraded mode and then fix it up after, but thats not the best approach
gNewSense (support in #gnewsense), Linux Mint (see !mint), LinuxMCE (support in #linuxmce), CrunchBang (support in #crunchbang), BackTrack (support in #backtrack-linux), Ultimate Edition
destinydriven, don't know if that would make a difference because it is outside apt
next thing i know, no panel up top, no window boarders
what is degraded mode?
wow, 11.04 has iphone support, badass
how come its now LibreOffice...?
what can it do with the iphone
I assume thats openoffice?
so now no cube and no panel
really ?
The torrent from the website doesn't match that....?
i have a notebook with 10.10 installed and work ok
hmm ok, guess I will have to use another ide for now
jdahm, ie disable mdadm, install to /dev/sda# and then rebuild afterwards
which OS ?
Hello all. For my sins, I'm trying to set up an IPSec VPN on an Ubuntu 10.10 Server machine. I'm using OpenSWAN (+ NETKEY, just the default setup).
simple-ccsm might work too, but I haven't tried
when it will be possible to upgrade ubuntu to 11.04
because Free means two things, and libre means one
?
now i try to install 11.04 and not work
LAcan; if that's compiz settings manager i have it; it's how I screwed up the install in the first places
oh, eww, nah I'll do it this way.  Thanks for the tip anyway
neckoox, yeah.. i had direct access to the root of it, access to the 3rd part apps, and access to the music.. amazing
place*
destinydriven, the real question is how to get unity to NOT take over the menu
so once i done all the updates im on 11.04 right?
as of today
Monotoko, LibreOffice is an updated OO.org
neckoox, so no longer need SSH to it
i think the problem is the raid
damn sweet !
they are now Free from sun / oracle
jdahm, see if you can mount md0 and md1, maybe once they are mounted the installer will play along
I'd love to know that
they are libre
sameone can help me ?
Its fixed :)
Libreoffice is a fork of openoffice that isn't under Oracle's control...since they initially apparently weren't willing to play friendly with it
thanks for the help
I tried switching to classic and changing the number of workspaces and then logging back into unity, but the change didn't carry over. Was trying to keep from installing compiz, but I guess I have to =/
did anyone run conky in 11.04?
but can you change the music on it ? like uploading music ?
CaneToad, I see...I've been out of the game a while!!
stREaKer, glad i was of help
Elssha, whats the screwup? you are likely in conflict between your WM and compiz?
neckoox, i think so.. so far i just tried playing it though.
ok I will after I get lunch. /dev/md1 is going to take about another hour to sync ;)
try try ! :P
OOo was always Free(gratis), but now they are Free(libre)
ok i feel very out of place on 11.04...
maybe I'll submit a big report about it
should i use desktop or netbook version?
LAcan; i turned on cube in CCSM and my panel (the shiny new one in 11.04) and window boarders ran away in mutiny
did anyone solve the backlight issues??
neckoox, cant atm lol, im at work and i already wasted an hour, sry
screen is black
can anyone tell me where the settings are...?
rather screen is blank on booting in
jdahm, you might also try getting the mdadm.conf setup in your install environment see if that helps
How can I make my USB bootable
a okay . np , i will probably test myself next week
what's the command line to open CCSM?
ccsm
Elssha, ccsm
Everytime I boot up my ubuntu I see "Resume:Libcrypt 1.4.5" is it natural?
neckoox, it works on live usb/cd, so done even need to instlal
is there a way to move this sidebar thing to the bottom?
n/m
compizconfig-settings-manager
I know.  I'm goign to need to chroot when I'm done installing and make sure everything is go inside the install
Elssha, than you can reset those properties THROUGH compiz ccsm
it's not goign to be nice
Should I use Desktop or Netbook an a two point multitouch screen with Pressure sensitive pen input  i7?
hi! just updated from 10.10 to 11.04... during install i had a crash. then i finished using shell. now my install is sometimes freezing and nautilus doesn't work anymore (just doesn't start). any suggestions?
michaelschmid, sounds like a reinstall job
sure?
michaelschmid, i agree with Monotoko
yup , i won't install it yet , since fresh dist. are known to be buggy .
The book suggests that an RSA key should be automatically generated during openswan installation, except on Gentoo where the install is half-broken.
/away lunch
michaelschmid, unless you can identify the library that was installing when it crashed
michaelschmid, I mean reinstall your operating system clean
oops
okay, what's this unity shell thing?
OchoZero9, I'd guess the Netbook edition would be better for a tablet (assume that's what you mean).
wubi on windows 7 is only allowing me 30GB to install ubuntu, but I have 119GB free.  how do I give it 80GB?
Anyone here having an issue with the Natty upgrade?
So, I get to the login screen and I click on my username. Sometimes it wont show the password entry form at all, and sometimes it does but wont let me type ...
yeah, i understood... but any ideas how to get nautilus running again and then installing some days later?
I'm getting an error during upgrade ...
193.1.193.69 80]
193.1.193.69 80]
193.1.193.69 80]
anyone here have an issue with the backlight on laptop screen
?
michaelschmid, try force reinstall of naut, but its more likely a library issue
anyone know what's this unity shell thing?
is*
where is my administrator menu?  No more compiz?  wtf...
how can i find out, at what job the upgrade crashed?
michaelschmid, you could try uninstalling ubuntu-desktop and reinstalling it...that would likely purge a lot, but it is more likely to break things than fix
Elssha, it's Ubuntu's new shell
FloodBot1,2,3, and 4 are all bots, please direct your questions to the channel.
Anyone here know if it's possible to sync folders from multiple mounted harddrives to Ubuntu One?
yay, that fixed it
^_^
or so i thing
think*
So, I get to the login screen and I click on my username. Sometimes it wont show the password entry form at all, and sometimes it does but wont let me type ... Any ideas?
Or am I confined to keep what I want synced in the home folder?
No Ubuntu One users here who could answer the question?
jbwiv, it's a notification
yes I have atablet, but I need the ability to run powerful apps like Electronic Design Automation.
Psychobudgie, ah...I see
why does 11.04 seem so dumbed down?
jbwiv, tells you that something has occurred somewhere. Doesn't actually tell you what occurred just that something has, somewhere, at some point
Oops, sorry jenkins.
Thing is, it seems that no RSA key has been generated during openswan installation on Ubuntu 10.10 either. /etc/ipsec.secrets contains the lineinclude /var/lib/openswan/ipsec.secrets.inc
For Ubuntu 10, the only major difference between the Desktop and Netbook editions is the interface.
hi
jbwiv, you see what I did there
hi. Im having problems with broadcom wifi after a clean install of 11.04. Any suggestions?
when comes do ubuntu 11.04 ??
someone can help me? problem with raid on 11.04
/var/lib/ipsec.secrets.inc doesn't exist.
thanks.
Psychobudgie, yes, I see. ;-). Thanks!
Psychobudgie, and i've been thinking that was a graphical artifact
Hey, is 11.04 released yet? update-notifier doesn't report 11.04 is available, only 10.10. :-/
When I get to the login screen (and it takes a while to get there...), it sometimes wont let me type my password anywhere. Other times, it shows the password textbox, but wont let me type. Any ideas?
escott, someone posted it as a bug earlier
Please don't ask to ask a question, simply ask the question (all on ONE line and in the channel, so that others can read and follow it easily). If anyone knows the answer they will most likely reply. :-)
is there a good, consistent set of end-user docs for unity? I'd like to convert my bro-in-law
ziber, i think i had the same problem
_cory, I guess you have a different view of what seems "dumbed down" than what I have. The new interface is a lot better, though it will require time to get used to. :)
Do you have a solution?
WOOT!
Do I have to update to 10.10 frist?
0
11.04!
escott, We should have a bet on what actual feature of unity will be the next one to be incorrectly indentified as a bug
my window manager is crashing amid the upgrade, and it's just resizing the windows over and over. halp?
Maybe u can help me figure a few things out.  I want to reconfigure my monitors but I don't have a preferences or administration menu anymore.  Also is tehre a way to reposition the sidebar?
I have an 18.6 GB partition that is almost full, and it hosts the operating system. I have naother 63GB partitoin that is only 60% full. How do I free up space on the OS partition?
first it was extremely slow, now it works, but sometimes it is freezing. try first to start the classic version (gnome)
(I'm basically typing into an oscillating Xchat window right now.)
ubuntu 11.04 today an ring ceremony tomorrow which means I get to leave school after it and be excused
And then, when I attempt to create an RSA key using sudo ipsec newhostkey (the method recommended for Gentoo installs by the openswan book) nothing happens.
Yes. If you're running 10.04, you'll need to upgrade to 10.10 first, then to 11.04
...How?
The preferences are in the "shut down" menu now.
ziber, but i don't really have a solutino
OchoZero9, gparted will allow you to resize/move
when will ubuntu11.04 released ??
witchsong_ ah ha!  thx
ziber, try to login using gnome (classic)
DASSSAD, it's out
OchoZero9, as with any partition changes make backups
is 11.04 LTS btw? I was kind-of confused by teh lack of "LTS" on the download site
The rsasigkey process just seems to stall, using 0 processor and memory (according to top).
it's out
is 11.04 LTS ?
It's not
How do I select that option?
why in a notebook with raid-0 perfectly run 10.10 i can't install 11.04
hi. Im having some problems with wifi after a clean install of 11.04. STA driver takes out wireless networks on the network applet. any ideas?
srsbiz, 11.10 is the next lts
DASSSAD, there isn't an 11.04 LTS
ziber, did upgrade to through without crash/error?
I've just upgraded to 11.04 and am now using unity.  How do I set the default screen in a 2-monitor setup? The vertical menu bar is appearing on the left side of the right screen (i.e. in the middle of the two monitors)
No.
Oh my gawd. Nevermind me. Not upgrading lol.
o+1 aka 12.04 is LTS
Hm?
rmmod the device then modprobe it
Hello
Psychobudgie, hard to say i feel like im over the hump and its starting to all seem normal. perhaps the workspace switcher not closing when you click on a workspace
ziber, click onto your user and then at the bottom you can choose
hm, alright
I've hidden my bottom panels, but now I don't know how to set "always show"
Help?
thanks escott, but I think 18gb is excessive how do I know what I have there that's un necessary?
If anyone is having a slow download the torrents are lightning fast
Leo, will any rsa key work? could you generate with gpg or ssh
It was a nice ride. Thanks to all at #ubuntu*
According to that, it does seem to be added...
OchoZero9, you could uninstall stuff you don't need or remove stuff like old kernels 18gb is high but if you installed a lot of stuff
man the mirrors are bogged down
im getting 15.6K
how to force nautilus reinstall? (on shell)
is there a way to see what's taking what space?
What does your grub.cfg look like?
Use torrents if possible.
should i upgrade to the new ubuntu?
michaelschmid, apt-get --reinstall install nautilus
Your decision.
Yeah, I'll just wait it out. I've already got it installed was just looking to download final release ISO for archive
please don't CTCP the channel like that.
arand, i'll paste it in 1 sec
bye bye
or send notices.
is 10.10 still gonna get upgrades and what not?
ok
sorry
metacity --replace
I've already filed a bug against the website for that. There is no netbook edition anymore.
escott, thanks!
what?
For 18months paste relese I think.
WHAT!?
is 11.04 LTS?
No
The "desktop" edition now uses Unity, which was the netbook shell.
netbook and desktop have been merged, both use unity now.
:(
hey iam using ubuntu server 10.10 and need some assistance on troubleshooting my mail server it has suddenly stopped sending and recieving mail
#ubuntu-server might be a better place to ask, #ubuntu is rather busy today due to the release.
thanks
hmmm.... nautilus won't start after reinstall.... any suggestions? :-)
hello
Do you have any kernels in Ubuntu 10.10's /boot/ ?
I'm trying to find out the md5 sum for the dvd image of the Ubuntu 11.04
any idea on where can I find it ?
I've had to kill compiz during the upgrade, it was stuck in a loop -- now how do I start metacity to gain access to my windows again?
upgraded to 11.04 and now I get a black screen at boot (under recovery mode I see a bit of scrolling text, then black); ATI Mobility HD3470
my installation of 11.04 has hung at "could not find module nvidia_current" after all them painfully slow updates :p
file not found
Jordan_U, no
Probably, though I'm not sure what key length etc. I need. Apparently I can also just try using a PSK password rather than an RSA key. But I was hoping I would be able to get a basic ipsec connection up  as a test before I had to start worrying about crypto settings. :(
How do I fix this?
Is there a way to easily organise the items in the Unity launcher? (I'm using 2D, if that makes a difference)
thanks :)
click and hold on the icons, they will float. move at will :-)
If there are no kernels then there will be no menu entries. Do you know why your Ubuntu 10.10 install has no kernels in its /boot/?
Leo, yeah i don't know ipsec or why that would hang
nutsfornatty, ah, okay, thank you very much!
Hi..
system doesn't appear to respond to any keyboard shortcuts (that I know of)
Jordan_U, I had my /boot on another patition
ceninan, i had the same (or quite similar)... after trying a bit i found out, that it worked with classic view... but now my installation is boggous and natulis won't work
right yeah ok
if you look in additioanl drivers, does it say the driver is installed and activiated or what?
the propritary driver
michaelschmid, classic view?
I'm using ubuntu 10.10 and i have a issue with sounds..
Firefox and Thunderbird (XUL) menus don't appear in the global menu bar" [High,Fix released]
Does that partition still exist? Are you still using it as the /boot/ for Ubuntu 10.10?
on login
What should the md5sum of the desktop iso be?
I can't login
you use gnome instead of unity
8b1085bed498b82ef1485ef19074c281?
the system locks before I can interact with it
ceninan, you don't even have login?
nope
Jordan_U, no i installed the new /boot onto that patition... Was that wrong?
:-(
Unity?
compare against the hash on the above link
Yes.
sebsebseb, Yes i use Unity.. Why?
sebsebseb, what page does not have the hashes for 11.04
ah speak of the devil. its started working after hanging there >1 hour
Why do you have a separate /boot/ partition in the first place?
maybe you can do something over ssh? from another machine?
IdleOne, unfortuneately not :(
ok I think I know why
right, but I think you got a issue with teh propritary driver?
michaelschmid, perhaps; may as well salvage the pieces and reinstall if there is no known/easy solution
Jordan_U, because i thought that it was the way to do it :-(
Unity was froozen?  like cws
IdleOne, I know, it only has old hashes.
hmm you are right.
IdleOne, not the new ones.
error message gives when i click "sounds " from preferences saying that "waiting for sound system to respond" and i can't open system sounds control center...how to resolve this problem..can some one help me
let me search a little
hello
the new ati driver is working nicely for me (full unity, lower system temps)
anyone have trouble with icons not showing up in the launcher?  neither gvim nor tasque have icons when i open them
sebsebseb, my Unity works fine
ops, may I ask a somewhat offtopic question?
Separate /boot partitions are only needed in specific circumstances.
its just booting for the first time now. ill install the additional drivers and see if i have any issues :)
rcmaehl, just ask
#ubuntu is the Ubuntu support channel, for all Ubuntu-related support questions. Please use #ubuntu-offtopic for other topics (though our !guidelines apply there too). Thanks!
i think some apps dont have launcher icons yet?
for some reason, the upgrade to 11.04 just stopped downloading and i had to redo it!
uhmm was Unity froozen, for an hour or so on your desktop?
No, We have less busy channels for that,
Pici, but like.. how do we even know its actually offtopic?
ok, do you know if i can recover my ubuntu 10.10 system?
anyone else has the problem that some windows turn white?
You can.
IdleOne, it seems right.
by his stating it was
anyone know how to put the launcher bar at the bottom on Natty?
Anyone else has a problem with xhci_hcd timeout and mouse / keyboard stop working with the natty kernel?
Leo, if its a really big key it might require a lot of randomness, and if the server is misconfigured in some way it may not be accepting enough sources of entropy
file not found
It's a question about if people want to play a game while updating to 11.04
the actual installation hung on the same output for over an hour, nothing appeared to be downloading so i dunno why it took so long.
What to do?
Chroot into your install, remove the /boot/ partition from /etc/fstab, and re-install your kernel packages.
eiriksvin, laucher cannot be moved atm, yes i know that sucks a bit
Because he said it was an offtopic question.
Hi escott, hows going your day?
Leo, cat /proc/sys/kernel/random/entropy_avail
oh ok, not Unity being froozen then
hey is it taking anyone else like 9 hours for updates to download?
werever, good you?
sounds like the repos are slow since it's release day
The Ubuntu repositories and ISO mirrors are currently under heavy load. Please consider using !torrents to download ISO images, and be patient with APT updates.  Also, try changing !mirrors
servers getting hammered
i use ubuntu 10.10...error message gives when i click "sounds " from preferences saying that "waiting for sound system to respond" and i can't open system sounds control center...how to resolve this problem..can some one help me
nice, now working only with linux and all is ok
make a new USB install.
syntheticlife:yea but mine said "1 Day and 14 hrs. remaining"!
seems likely.
The Ubuntu repositories and ISO mirrors are currently under heavy load. Please consider using !torrents to download ISO images, and be patient with APT updates.  Also, try changing !mirrors
IdleOne, I just did. Same thing.
IdleOne, I have verified that the md5sum is correct.
not sure how to help you sorry.
if i torrent can i still do upgrade instead of a new install?
i waited 9minutes for a 1mb file. thats release day for you
sudo cat  /proc/sys/kernel/random/entropy_avail gives me 135
no you don't upgrade using a torrent, you can get the ISO from a torrent
someone else might know. state your issue again.
what does that mean
syntheticLife, you need to download the alternative ISO
burn it or mount it
isn't there a simpler way? With a ubuntu 10.10 live cd for example?
what does what mean?
and upgrade from that
torrent iso -> burn iso to DVD or usb key -> install as either upgrade or clean install
nutsfornatty> yeah they give a bunch of options with that downloadable plugin, but why wouldnt they just give an option of where to put that monstrosity
it'll ask you to download updates while upgrading
the !slow thing
don't do that, they're 900 MBytes in size
finally got my iso downloaded (via torrent on my slow dsl), going to re-install  have fun you people with slow upgrades. ;)
and  with 11.04 you can upgrade  your 10.10 install to 11.04 it seems using the ISO
:-)
escott, nice, now working only with linux and all is ok,  I am trying to update my 10.10 to 11.04 but update manager ask me to insert 10.10 into a cdrom ¿is mandatory this step?, I have 10.10 only in a flash memory, I dont burn cds never
okay thanks sebsebseb
well CD I should say once you got the contents of the ISO burnt to it
The openswan book suggests that OpenSWAN does a 2192-bit RSA key by default.
Leo, lol now you have to figure out what units that is
werever, shouldn't be. its not the best day to do it... the servers are being hammered
file not found. How do I fix this? I have verified that the md5sum is correct.
eiriksvin, do trust. we had a big conversation about the lack of unity customization atm. im sure someone will create a way to move the launcher within a month (hacked or official)
on releae day,  many Ubuntu fans download the new release, as a result,  the servers  tend to get slow, be that for the ISO's,  or the repos/resporitories for Ubuntu
escott, I understand
durn, was waiting till my exams were done to install, now i have to wait longer!
tdn, #Ubuntu+1 is probably better for that question.
jo-erlend #ubuntu+1 is closed for now, this is 11.04 now as well
nope this is the correct channe;
jo-erlend, +1 is closed now
oh. Sorry.
channel*
it just came out TODAY?!?!?
yes
oh! It's release day :)
11.04 got released earlier today
I'm moving house so I had completely forgotten! That's a first...
yeah, about 9 hours ago
error message gives when i click "sounds " from preferences saying that "waiting for sound system to respond" and i can't open system sounds control center...how to resolve this problem..can some one help me
if you want new ubuntu quickest, always preload the beta then do the system updates to final release. too late now for that strategy to work though haha
wow. i thought it came out on the 4th!
tried rebooting?
jo-erlend, 11.04 is released now.
no, but Gnome 3 came out on the 6th of April :)
yea I know but the alpha was available, didnt want to get distracted by it
done verything
that happened to me with the last release, I didn't even find out till a week after! :)
could be a pulse audio issue hanging in another session
i mean general stuff
pulseaudio running?
thanks so much! *leaves*
well, how do i go to classic desktop mode until then?
escott, please see my private message
too bad Unity doesn't work on VmWare :(
i dnt know
how to check that
well not sure about VMware, but it can work with Virtualbox :)
shane4ubuntu, yes, I've been using it for a while, so... The release isn't that important to me. But this is offtopic. Sorry.
why? does unity use opengl?
 * Greek_o_nikos upgrading from 10.10 to 11.04
id there a way to use natty, but looking like Maveric?
eiriksvin, on the login screen. look at the bottom bar. change "ubuntu" to "ubuntu classic" and login. done
for some effects, that's why it uses Compiz
proq, Unity uses Compiz.
escott, I downloaded full iso final 11.04, is possible update from this iso?
press "alt F2"
pulseaudio &
will it do that for my profile only?
the thing to remember about Gnome 3 being released on the 6th of April is that, because different distros work differently, and because now more eyeballs will be on it, there will be some lag before distros have it as part of their stable releases :-)
after that, retry opening the sound stuff
however there's also already the Unity 2D version which you can get from a ppa, made with Qt what KDE uses, and that will probably be the default fall back for 11.10 instead of Gnome 2 with their Ubuntu specific changes
werever, if you add its package archive to your list of apt archives you should be able to use it
apparently possible to update from iso
werever, the desktop  cd can't be used as a local archive like the alternate cd can. It uses other techniques to install the system very quickly, but that isn't compatible with apt.
A Google search seems to suggest that the unit is bits. Yes, that's what man random says too, I think.
eiriksvin, yes. i have 2 profiles 1 unity and 1 classic. the change is instant and you can easily switch back and foward
it doesnt work
I went to download Ubuntu, but i could not figure out which iso to donwload
I'm actually surprised at how close unity 2d is to the functionality of unity 3d
unity-2d is in main..
is it?  hmm it was a ppa
then If i want to update, I need to download alternative iso?
pulseaudio -d
Leo, that seems pretty low check your entropy sources
werever, or directly from the servers?
how do you switch back and forth?
Must've been early in the cycle..
I'm trying to update to 11.04 on my Eee PC 901 but it says that the upgrade will take 8 hours.... (was 11 hours about 30 minutes ago) .. I feel like the system has been running slow lately, so i think i will need a full re-install.. But how do i cancel the upgrade?
apt-get package download with and without apt-p2p is slow. Is there anything that I can do ir just wait until the rush is over?
I thought it was still a ppa, but ok that's good if it's in the main repo
Leo, I have 600
ir=or
Emasarn, if you have a PC with 2-3GB RAM, then 32bit is the best one. If you have more RAM, or expect to have more RAM in the future, you need the 64bit one.
fritsch :nop
if this does not work, killing pulseaudio and restarting would be an idea.
so are people planning on actively working on unity while this release is in the wild?
any issues with broadcom 4311 wifi cards not being detected after updating from Maverick?  Mine is not detected.
shane4ubuntu, go to the login screen. look at the bottom bar of that screen. change "ubuntu" to "ubuntu classic" and login. repeat to switch back. very easy but easily overlooked.
pulseaudio -k
Leo, and now i have like 100 :)
Hello. I'm having serious input lag issues after upgrading, but I'm not sure which package is causing the problem, thus making it difficult to report the bug. What should I do now?
afterwards pulseaudio -d
probably just wait till the rush is over. :(
sure Canonical's team will still continue work on it for 11.10
and retry
check that you are access the Best Server for your area of the world
guys...if I upgrade my motherboard and CPU will ubuntu still play nicely...?
or will I need to reinstall?
it will
it should work just fine
sebsebseb, are we going to see those improvements?  It's completely unusable right now
with p2p I access tons of servers at same time
awesome
I tried but update manager ask me for cd rom of 10.10 version, i have this iso on my usb device, is mandarory insert 10.10 cdrom?
you do not have to reinstall, it is not windows :-)
somethingelse, sure. There are many improvements to be made. I expect that's why they wanted to introduce it in this release, so they have another normal release to polish before the next LTS cycle.
fritsch:done
the development versiosn of 11.10, will get the improvements to Unity yes
ahh, ok, I thought there was an even quicker way the way you had mentioned it, thanks.
I do have Windows too...will that need a reinstall?
developmetn versions
does not work, or does it?
if you going to reinstall anyway, I don't think it matters 'how' you stop it
it's unuseable right now, how so?
on the other hand it is worth a try. Which tool is for the server speed check?
windows probably will need a reinstall/reactivation yeah
fritsch:but problem remains
>.<
jo-erlend, I have an Intel 64, but the 64 bit version seems to only be available for amd?
??  I think you got the wrong guy! :)  How's it going though!
just try first and see what happens
also if you find Unity unusable or whatever, give Gnoem Shell a try ;)  the new interface for Gnome 3 the default proper one :)
werever, no. Look in your archive settings and maybe remove it. You do have an installed system, yes?
sorry, no idea from here - did it ever work bevore?
this is one of those times I wish I didn't need to rely on Windows
oh yeah I did
its ok thanks
64 bit is for both Intel and AMD (and VIA)
see above was messging wrong guy again
Emasarn, ah. No, forget that. It works well on both.
Emasarn, that's because AMD made the x64 standard. It will work fine with Intel chips
it works
I have already previewed unity and already plan on sticking with gnome though. :)
unity is great but you do have to change the way you think about opening/moving/organizing your desktop apps
Emasarn, it's just that Intel had some strange ideas back in the days.
Thank you all :)
sebsebseb, are they going to continue developing unity even after gnome 3 is done?  It seems the two have similar goals
Fuck me this place is busy.
is there anything like World Of Warcraft native to Linux?
filter all the channel events and its easier to read
But when i installed skype
it went wrong
nutsfornatty, yes, you do. I got used to it very quickly though, and I'll never look back. But there are still improvements to be made.
give unity a full week of use (and make sure you know the keyboard shortcuts) and i think most people will be ok with it
Monotoko, thought WoW had a linux client
Please watch your language and topic to help keep this channel family-friendly, polite, and professional.
I am not sure what do you mean with "archive settings", and yes I have ubuntu 10.10 as single OS on my lap, no partitions, no dual boot, no windows
nope, but you can run it using the wine program
Backspace key especially is laggy, like whole seconds between when I use it and when it decides to work
sebsebseb, just seems like a strange interface choice...I actually had to uninstall unity on a netbook last release because it was taking up all the horizontal space and causing scrollbars on all webpages
hangs his head in shame
escott..nope, they dropped it years ago
is skype currently running? could block your sound device
they do,  really  Gnome Shell is the proper version since that's from upstream Gnome, but Canonical wanted to do their own interface that was originally going to be for netbooks only  so yeah 10.10, but can use that on a desktop even :)   and  then it was decided that starting with 11.04 they would make for desktops as well, instead of going with Gnome Shell by default
werever, ok. I'm not sure why it'
no i uninstalled it
How do I get back Visual Settings tab from Appearance Properties?
acicula, I know, it doesn't run well in Wine
has anyone figured out how to get unity working in vmware
that;s why I need Windows
I cant wait to get rid of this windows instrall
how come i cannot move program window from one monitor to another ( dual display function ). i'm usting ubuntu 10.04 and i have compiz enabled
nskype does not change any system settings concerning audio
upstream Gnome, and Canonical had similar, but also differnet idea's on what they wanted for an interface, so yep both
werever, why it'd ask for CD then. But you can configure which sources to use. It's in System > Administration > Software Sources.
WoW doesnt run in wine? it has platinum support afaik
is gnome shell the same as gnome desktop?
skype also doesn't work
They may be treated as different workspaces?
im almost sure WoW works in wine
has anyone figured out how to get unity working in vmware
acicula, it should have...it runs just very very slowly for me
arand, by whom? compiz ?
ahh, ok
sebsebseb, so are they going to try to reconcile those?  seems like a pretty strange thing to have two different versions of the same thing floating around... I'm still not sure why they didn't just pump more manhours through docky, which appears to be more stable and usable than this unity thing is
i can't remember i think i havw done something with pulseaudio
*have
did you install any hardware drivers using the hardware driver tool?
"kern.random" is an unknown key"
acicula, yeah...graphics drivers
what gpu do you have?
fritsch :that may be the reason
i miss docky, unity needs proper docky like widget imo. but no point in having TWO docks (unity + docky) at the same time
acicula, ASUS 5750 or something I think
Unity is currenlty on top of Gnome 2 in 11.04, but will be on top of Gnome 3 for 11.10  whilst being used instead of Gnome Shell by default.  and with 11.10 people should be able to install the uhmm 100% proper Gnome 3 expereince from the repo's no problem.  where as with 11.04 Gnome 3 is an optional ppa, which lacks a few things
I've lost my hardware graphics support.
1GB cache memory
cost me about £60 last year
 Monotoko hmm that should be able to run it just fine
Oh, I misread the version.. Hmm, I don't know I'm afraid..
backintime is very cool, hope i wont have to learn how to restore from it with the upgrade 99
somethingelse, you're arguing about shells? They'll all be available in 11.10. It's not possible to provide gnome shell yet, for purely technical reasons, but we'll get there. And they'll have different strengths.
acicula, it's perfect in Windows...runs like a beast
And encfs doesn't work properly (but then it never did). My hacks have been undone.
wow
its just it seems to have a problem with Wine
i must say
Hello, I'm having an issue with open windows opening at the very top of the screen and I can't grab the top bar to move the window because its off screen. Also the alt to grab isn't working.
look t the message I just sent shane4ubuntu as well :)
idk, it may require some fiddling to get it work properly, check the winehq thread/ubuntu forums, pretty sure there are a fair few wow users in the ubuntu community
great job on 11 ...if they meant to destroy anything good about the window manager
awesome job!
heh
right I was playing with gnome3 a little in my little spare time, but didn't get far, thanks for the info.
galamar, you don't need to. Press alt, click anywhere in the window and drag it around. :)
Graphics didn't involve any hacking, so that's worrying :-s
acicula, I'l try again...it has been a year since I tried
compiz is gne wondow managing is gone
jo-erlend, I'm just wondering why this change has been forced on desktop users when it doesn't appear to have anything to do with us, are there a lot of people running ubuntu on a touchscreen device?  AFAIK there isn't even a ubuntu touchscreen device in existence...
in place of a beta ubuntu app
has anyone figured out how to get unity working in vmware
they didn t change the window manager
perfect
answer the question
!patience
I've heard WoW runs faster in Ubuntu from those of my friends who play it.
Does any body know about the error messege " waiting from sound system to respond" ???
Leo, no but typing into an ssh shell may not do anything for entropy because it doesn't generate any kernel traffic (beyond the NIC) and the NIC might be invalidated because it is outside accessible and potentially hostile
well i have no window manager now
somethingelse, there are. But what are you talking about? The classic ubuntu desktop experience is installed by default in 11.04. Just choose it from the login screen.
i can't move anything
does the metacity window manager work within vmware?
Are you using Metacity or Compiz?
Starminn, may just need an upgrade for my mobo and CPU...they are lacking behind a lil bit these days
Leo, see if you can generate disk io
compiz
i was using compiz
Done, I found where software sources option is, is within update manager under settings button,  thanks!
no upstream Gnome and Canonical are moving more away more from each other, since the new interfaces,  under the hood Ubuntu will still be using well the rest of Gnome.  Unity is going to be the interface by default for Ubuntu, for a very long time I expect, unless loads of users don't like it or something.
compiz does
now it's gone
jo-erlend, I mentioned that alt grab is not working either.
what do you have now?
Unity uses compiz, by the way..
i can't click on anything i was totally surprised this works
jo-erlend, I'm running the standard session right now after an hour or two of being frustrated with even the most minor modifications to the unity bar (adding new applications to it), but I'm worried that in future versions users not using unity will be shoved out the door or disregarded, I want somewhere to voice my opinion
be back after a clean install.
I gotta ask a super important question. I'm using Lucid x86_64 on my primary machine (consider it a production machine). Hard drive is encrypted with LUKS. Should I upgrade to Natty or will things possibly break?
what does not work with the unity manager in vmware?
acicula, dual core, 2.6Ghz intel 775
unity is just terrible nothing is working
Well, if your processor is slow then running something like WoW is going to be *very* slow. Ask in ##hardware to see if it might be your computer or Ubuntu. That way we have it narrowed down a bit.
somethingelse, oh. Sorry. I should've seen that. Are you using Unity?
do we need to consult our crystal ball, or is this a random guess
Hi, does anyone know if texlive is part of the default install in natty?
I'm having major keyboard lag after upgrading, what do I do?
What's wrong with the lastest version? Why is it loading for hours?
if its production, test first
hey all, is the 2.2tb limit on all 32-bit systems, or just ones that don't use GPT?  i have a 32-bit ubuntu server, and i want to add a 3tb drive...
I can't. I don't have the same machine to play with.
Please, this channel is for support.
Or.
Hey all, just got 11.04 and i saw those rotating wallpaper sets. How can i make my own?
Actually.
I take that back.
ok has your Unity froozen?
do you need to ugprade for any reason at all?
Question - I can't set Chromium to be my default browser in 11.04. When I select it in the preferences menu, nothing happens. When I open Chromium, it asks me every time if I want to make it my default. Regardless of what I say, it keeps asking me each time I open it. Any ideas?
is it smart to upgrade from 10.10 to 11.04 now?  or wait a couple weeks to get stuff ironed out? What are y'alls thoughts
arrrghhh, gpt will avoid that limit
I haven't gotten a notice to upgrade my ubuntu. Im still on lucid lynx.
i have no window manager i cannot move anything my main menu is gone i can open nothing
How do I upgrade now?
escott, excellent, thanks.
Wait 2-4 weeks. That's what I'm doing.
not sure if it's up yet, but there was something about being able to try Ubuntu 11.04 with Unity 2D in a web browser, on the Ubuntu site
GPU hangs at random and I have to REISUB to fix.
Run the update manager
compiz is gone i can run nothing
integrated intel
I just got an upgrade notice.  thats why i asked
Raikia, 10.10 will be supported for quite a while, so if you're not in a hurry, don't feel pressured. :)
when does natty come out?
i need to wipe this machine and resintall 10.10
!lts
sandy bridge processor?
galamar, its out
oh
never using 11 what a terrible change
in certain ways 10.10 is better, in certain waysi it's worse, and even in certain ways other dsitro's are better, but well this really does depend on the user
im running it
thanks all
ahh well good for trying i suppose
Story of linux :-P
but copying osx was a bad idea
but it doesnt say I have an update up top like usual
LTS means Long Term Support. LTS versions of Ubuntu will be supported for 3 years on the desktop, and 5 years on the server. The current LTS version of Ubuntu is !Lucid (Lucid Lynx 10.04)
macross, I don't mind it tbh
macross, takes 5 seconds to switch back in the login screen.
Can you make rotating wallpapers in unity?
what happened to the netbook version
when will upgrade manager show it?
Please don't PM, are you using btrfs?
macross, copying what?
In a terminal "sudo apt-get update"
osx
Then open Update Manager again.
im using ubuntu 10.10, wanting to upgrade.  I ran apt-get update && apt-get dist-upgrade, but it says there is nothing to update (and update-manager says im all up to date).  Do I need to do anything else?
macross, hardly.
Sure, the live CD is loading for hours.
sure looks it
don't think so. Atom N550
i know.
Is there any change to classic gnome desktop from 10.10 in 11.04 ?
jo-erlend, If there's some like voting booth or something I could go to to let everyone know that I don't think this is a good direction for the OS I would be very interested in doing so.  Unity has to be one of the least customizable things I've ever seen.  You can't even pick which screen edge to display it on (unless there's some manual hack for that I'm not aware of)
sudo do-release-upgrade
macross, the global menu is similar, but works differently. That's the *only* similarity.
o/
macross, take this somewhere else. This is very offtopic for this channel.
I don't know.
What is btrfs?
Stameni, very small.
danke
macross, I've used Ubuntu since 2005. Ever since I started, people somehow found in their twisted minds something to say about how Ubuntu was copying Mac. Ever. Since. Day. One.
AFAIK it uses the "Main Menu" by default but other than that it's mostly the same.
Raikia by the way not really a good idea to try upgrading to 11.04 right now,  the repo's are apparnatly slow
It's old, and a dead horse.
A filesystem, nevermind it doesn't affect your issue
Stameni, the appindicators have been improved and such. Default apps have obviously changed in classic ubuntu as well, but other than that, not much.
The global menu, yes it's similar, but not identical. The similarities pretty much stop there.
 Raikia since release day
thanks
Question - I can't set Chromium to be my default browser in 11.04. When I select it in the preferences menu, nothing happens. When I open Chromium, it asks me every time if I want to make it my default. Regardless of what I say, it keeps asking me each time I open it. Any ideas?
Is there no netbook iso for 11.04?
Yes, the live CD loaded to the background and still loading for hours.
Where do I get the netbook iso?
They've been merged into one.
there is no more netbook verion
my mistake. N455
version*
tdn, I think the netbook remix is gone, since its so similar to what the regular desktop is now.
I actually used the local console (not SSH/telnet) to play tetris for just that reason. Maybe I just need to play longer. Not the worst thing to have to do. :) If that doesn't work I'll have a look at some of the alternative sources.
In other words, for a "production" system, you are in a good place.  If it is doing what you need it to do, wait ...  That is my recommendation.  (But you could ask 3 different people and get 3 different answers, so.... for what it's worth...)
tdn, there is no more netbook version. There is only ubuntu and ubuntu server.
jo-erlend, Sta4minn, thank you. I will migrate to 11.04 classic desktop than. It can be set to default ?
jo-erlend, Starminn, thank you. I will migrate to 11.04 classic desktop than. It can be set to default ?
Ok.
Stameni, you just choose it whenever you login. It's at the bottom of the screen after you've selected your user.
You choose it at login. Like any other Desktop Environment.
Then there is a dead link on the ubuntu.com page. When you go to alternative downloads and chose bittorrent there is one for netbook and it gives 404.
i have client machines running ubuntu in a computer lab with video issues and the issues was closed, suggest I upgrade to natty due to improved video card support.
you can get to Ubuntu Classic from the log in screen, and set as default, but of interest why do you want that?
why is it, that even though I told it *not* to get updates from online while using the alternate iso, it's still downloading files?
but if  i dont want login screen, can gnome be default ?
What a painful upgrade!  Do --not-- try to enable desktop cube with ccsm
TerryBook, I noticed that too, was easily the longest part of the install
Starminn it said unable to lock the administration directory
If I downloaded a natty disc before its release date can I use that disc to install, or do I need to redownload?
can i run php as an user?
tdn, URL please? Keep in mind that there are more releases alive. 10.04 and 10.10 will be available for quite a while. Those do have netbook editions.
so, I'm banking on the hope that natty would also fix my video issues.
once you got Classic set as default, you can have auto log in set up, and should go into that by default :)
jnlsnl_, php -i
Hello. Am I blind or that Unity bar is completly uncustomable? E.g. I want to add also folders there, edit width etc...
like... in commandline?
TheRedOctober, I was just about too...
Just update.
Is it possible to use Landscape as a normal (non-commercial) user ?
Alright, my GUI on ubuntu is messed up. I have a flash drive and an ubuntu 10.10 desktop ISO. From the CLI, how can I make the flash drive bootable?
sebsebseb tnx, thats good :)
that link is a bug, it's been reported
anyone using XChat 2.8.8 on 11.04?
you can add other app icons on it, and that's about it I think, unless you use the compiz settings,  but yes in general it's rather uncoustomiable at the moment
Have you properly written the .iso too the drive?
hey, does 11.04 support Nvida GeForce 310M ?
It very will could, not sure.  Depends on what your particular video issues are.
I need to run a bash command from a php script, but the command is not executed.. i suspect because of permission issues
Wickedspawn, is that the one in the repo?
is that a new card or?
Well, I'm asking how to do that.
yea
Wickedspawn, I'm using xchat from the repos. If that's 2.8.8, I am. But that's not a useful question. I'm going away now and I have no idea what you really wanted to ask.
hmm... not brand new
i'll make a dd image of /boot and the LUKS partiton. if something breaks, I can boot from a liveCD and push the images back to the hard drive like nothing ever happened.
Wickedspawn, then yeah I am
I couldn't even add a custom script to the unity launcher
please where can I enable compiz Ezoom in natty. Im visually impaired and it is a pain looking at the tiny everything and I am lost in the mess left by the uprgrade
What Ubuntu version are you using?
Hi can some one explain , is it a good idea to upgrade from 10.10 to 11.04 ...if my works are completely depends on ubuntu.. i mean the job...i'm asking this because it is just released..
then I tried to add the terminal by dragging it onto the bar and it just put a gap between two icons
without anything in it
I'm on ubuntu 9.04 lts, but the GUI isnt working...
starwinn, i want to reinstall because my current install is not a x86_64 version its an i586 so i want to better suit my processor.
!ezoom
well not sure if there are stil quite a few issues with the propritary Nivida drivers resulting in Unity crashing, in 11.04 or not, but if so,  you could install, and then remove the propritary driver, and try the experimental I guess.
Oh.... I couldn't tell you.
every nickname I put in the Nicknames not to highlight box gets eaten.
^^
aravinda, it doesn't hurt to wait. If you depend on it, I think a golden rule is to upgrade when you need to. Think why instead of why not.
If  you have another drive, you install it as slave and clone it.
ok back
like I see no reply from them at all...
I think you eman 10.04 LTS?
aravinda, if you use your keyboard a lot, don't upgrade
but it is in my raw log
if your on 9.04 still that's not supported anymore
sadly
please can you help me re-enable compiz Ezoom in natty?
why do you say that
I also tried to pin the active google chrome window on the bar by selecting the pin option, and the freaking thing would never open a new chrome window ever....
is there a unity guru here?
ok then i try to install
what's your question
hypetech, major keyboard lag after upgrading
ya i use keyboard very much
thx for your help
There are several things you could do to make an easy path back to where you are.
I have a 5 second lag when I use the backspace key
I haven't had that problem :\
OverTheHillAndFa, we'll try help the best we can, even if we are not gurus. :)
what' sthe default install directory of applications?
Well, either that, or suggestions on how to fix my GUI... My login screen doesnt show me a password prompt, so I cant login.
and i work with tools like maven
Can Unity be moved yet?
Wickedspawn, ahhh I don't use that feature
sorry
thats an odd problem
Superstar, moved?
OchoZero9, /usr/bin for binaries /usr/share for resources /usr/lib for you get the ide
I think he means putting the dock somewhere else
awesome > kde > gnome > unity
jo-erlend to the bottom of the screen
what software do you use that might be doing passive grabs, or are you using an ime? or did you mess with xorg's priority
i uninstalled unity-2d and reinstalled standard unity. now it will not load from login. only from terminal
have you tried "unity --reset" ?
Superstar, no, and I don't think that's going to happen, unless we get a portrait mode. But that'd  almost certainly include other stuff as well.
nope
give that a shot and see if it helps on reboot
Reinstall gdm?
Could try.
can i make rotating wallpapers using unity? the gnome methods dont work anymore obviously
ohsix, I don't know what the first two mean, and no, I did not change xorg's priority
why it is ? regarding keyboard
no don't think so
find out what the first two mean and investigate the software you are running
HELP!
Anyone know if there exists a Banshee plugin to add Spotify support?
also the Gnome 2 wall papers, do work in Unity, because it's on top of Gnome 2 still for 11.04
crud. I saw those nice roating sets preloaded and thought they made it native.
funny no one in the ayatana channel did not suggest that?
Please don't ask to ask a question, simply ask the question (all on ONE line and in the channel, so that others can read and follow it easily). If anyone knows the answer they will most likely reply. :-)
why can't I use alt tab to switch app, where is compiz config
where do I re-enable Ezoom?
i have over 4GB in /usr/lib is that normal?
do "ccsm"
no don't think so
you can run Spotify in Wine though
also paste the output of xlsclients -al to a pastebin
seems like it might work. will do a reboot soon
natty nuked my wireless, can anyone point me to a fix?
cool
did you install kde? it is normal
..., but I expected it to do ..."
It seems new release doesn't stable enough to work in a professional environment????????
are you heksesang?
I don't understand what possessed them to put it on the left. They must be confused. Decade of computing has launches, top or bottom as the norm - ie windows 3.1-7 and osx, and they thought this would be cool or different?
sebsebseb, I know, but I'd love to have a plugin for it in Banshee so I wouldn't have to use Wine and it would better integrate with Unity. :)
well persoanlly I woudn't give Unity to a business at this time :)
guys im trying to open package manager and i have error said that there is something wrong in the sources.list file ?
how can i fix that ?
Tetsuo55, yes. :)
where you been man, join the mpc chan
start menus have always been in top left or bottom left
Setting Update "run_key" in terminal. should i just wait?
Yes.
mpc chan?
so it's better wait..:)
yea just let it finish, I interrupted mine the other day and rebooted anyway and all was fine, but I'd try and let it finish anyway
hypetech but a launcher has never. unity is a launcher not just a start menu
#mpc-hc its a windows media player, doesnt work on wine right now
Tetsuo55, been busy, getting ready to finish my bachelor degree. In two months I will finally be done. :D
ok, thanks :)
and then full-time coding on mpc-hc? :P
sebsebseb, it was directed at me, I've been doing some coding on the player. ;)
Tetsuo55, if you're willing to pay me. :P
ok so how do i get my current install to recognize that natty is available?
i can you in "gratitudes", that work for you?
Withong_ a bit more sober than banshee but mopidy works natively
Which version is your curren install?
it's based on mpd (music player deamon)
10.10
Tetsuo55, it doesn't taste as good as the food I'd get if I had money. :P
hello
thanks!
trying to upgrade now would probably be pretty slow by the way
true
it's true on a 1920x1080 display i have a lot of horizontal space that never gets used. i take it back
i've just updated my ubuntu into 11.04.... how can i remove this unity panel with apps icons? i really like 'docky' ;/
Anyone here know how much work it would be to write a Spotify plugin for Banshee?
so I should wait to upgrade/
and the default apps menu under 'gnome icon'
anyoen here happen to have a dell e6400 and installed 10.04 problemfree?
i wish I had
Hello. I've made it far coming here. My journey has been long. I am new to Ubuntu, as you might understand. Now, I am wondering what I need to do in order to update my Alpha 11.04 to the full version - any clues?
install updates. the end.
go into Update Manager and you will find it
what is "exe", and that unknown entry?
ooohhh
Update manager?
yep
Thanks
is there an ubuntu server chan or is this the place for that 2?
"alpha" is just a name for a certain point in time during the dev cycle. if you kept up with installing updates the whole time, you've moved from alpha to beta to final automatically
NP, hope you enjoy
#ubuntu-server
Is there any way to confirm my version?
Im in update manager running lucid lynx. and I dont see the new OS update anywhere
you can change to Ubuntu Classic Desktop from the log in screen, and set as default even :)
maco thnx
if you have no updates available, you're at final
how do I update from 10 to 11
lsb_release -a
lucid is an lts release so only shows other lts releases by default
sebsebseb, unity looks fine with this 'global menu' feature
10.04 or 10.10 ?
use xprop -id with those window id's and pastebin the output
sebrock im on 10.10
why is my flash slow? on webpages things blink alot slower than they should.
but the only thing is that panel and menu ;/
sebsebseb i mean
in the software sources thing in the menu, change update settings to show non-lts releases. then you can upgrade to 10.10
Ubuntu Classic Desktop can use the global menu as well,  I don't think it's default though, well it may be
from there to 11.04. you cannot skip 10.10
uhm
ok, thanks, i'll try
its proprietary :)
flash sucks on linux. always has. probably always will.
bastards
10.10 isnt lucid
flash sucks in general
Please watch your language and topic to help keep this channel family-friendly, polite, and professional.
lol
I'm running 10.10 and I've got a updates that say "Partial Upgrade"... is that something to do with the move o 11.04 ????
can anyone help ,me with this? I need to give PHP permission to execute a bash script
and upgrading now will probably be slow
D
w4m
WoW test 1! :P
on the top right, in the menu there, in Unity
removing gnome applets such as weather, notification area... sux :(
are the update servers overloaded? I'm upgrading with only 40kB/s
indeed
It's really hard to keep up with the chatting here...
yea
wow, never heard that one before...why use php in such a situation?
?
,but sadly even Gnome Shell has done that, but that feature is probably coming for Gnome 3.2 :)  the next one in about six months, yay nice :)
make sure the script is set to executable
weather app is there, you can install from terminal
after Kubuntu 11.04 install, I automatically log into classic mode, how I can change this?
I cant find in my update settings how to go from 10.10 to 11
thanks... yeah, that sux :/
okay so as for my first issue with the windows being to far up to grab and alt to grab doesnt work either any solutions for that?
!isitout
Yes, join #ubuntu-release-party to celebrate!
"sudo do-release-upgrade"
log out, and select what you want on log in screen
hypetech, ok, thanks. Maybe I should just cancel the upgrade and try again tomorrow. Or would that break stuff when its still downloading?
I want to make a service hook from github that executes a git pull command so a test server is in synch with my repository
...where does FF download to??
it won't break anything if it's still in the downloading phase
yeah not really a good idea to cancel the upgrade once you started
user / downloads folder @ monotoko
oh I am on 10.04 so I need to upgrade to 10.10 first
hypetech i did 777 on it and nothing :/
tanx sebsebseb, i gonna try
installing stuff
how do I do that?
To Downloads/  by default  (if it exists)
do "chmod a+x <script>"
yep got to go through 10.10 to get 11.04
What does that LSB-abbreviation mean? I know LTS is Long Term Support... ?
lsb = linux standards base
you have to set the executable bit that way to run scripts
Hi.  I cannot boot into Ubuntu (all I see is a black screen forever).  How can I fix this?  I have natty 11.04
sebsebseb okay how do I go to 10.10 now
nutsfornatty, usr13 .... it wasn't there, it was in my tmp folder
you can upgrade to it, but  right now probably not the best time, repo's are probably pretty slow
Confused, but thanks. :) You're really quick at answering!
also by default 10.04 only shows Long Term Support releases
by default LTS's only show other LTS's
i dont mind the wait
monotoko, open the menu for firefox and change the default downloads directory for saving items
hmm
I miss the notification area the most! How can I easily see what am I playing in Rhythmbox, if my Dropbox is synced or everything else is happening? For this I must go back to Ubuntu Classic
I cannot boot into ubuntu!  I need help.  All I see is a black screen.
sebsebseb, where i can find this 'global menu' feature now?
its a standards body that mostly just went with "red hat's way is standard!" *roll eyes* but decreeing a standard place to put release info (as opposed to /etc/redhat_release and whatever debian's was) was handy
and in certain ways, you may find 10.04 better, so not sure if they got the try 11.04 online thing in a web browser up yet, but yeah that for example is a way to try 11.04
monotoko, menu -> edit -> preferences -> change the downloads folder
Is the slow flash-response and heavy chewing a global problem, or am I one of the few?
sebsebseb okay ill go 10.10 for now
nutsfornatty, thank you...have done
I just dont know how to do it
hello
pretty global
sebsebseb, thats what I thought, good. Then ill just abort now and try again in a few days, when the server is not so busy
never noticed before that anything adobe just gives away must be really slow and memory-hoggish?  i mean...flash... acrobat reader...
that has instructions for adding back notification
developmetn versions of 11.04 with Ubuntu Classic Desktop had the global menu, but I  think since then they removed it, but you may be able to add from the repo or something, if it's not there by default
Hey
Hey, I just finished installing Natty on my system; however, I've ran into an issue with my dual monitors and ati drivers. In order for me to be able to use my dual monitors I have to have xinerama enabled, but it doesn't support compiz when enabled. So when I try to login I'm sent back to the GDM. Any ideas on how I can fix this, please?
In FF, click Tools -> Downloads  and then right-click on any downloaded file and choose "Open Containing Folder" you will be taken to it.
Ubuntu 11.04 will not install for me, my laptops backlight will now work when i run the installer
Ubuntu 11.04 installed but I can't boot, all I get is a black screen and that's it.
haha, my system is a1-2% cpu usage with xchat, nat, and chrome open. shoots up to 44% on flash video haha
same here alex13
the backlight wont work
jsebean which graphics card?
very unimpressive
You can also tell FF to ask where to download to.
how do I upgrade from 10.04 to 10.10?
Intel, not sure exactly i got an emachine e725
@sebsebseb I don't know because I can't boot into ubuntu to find out.
through 10.10
Does unity have weather next to the clock like gnome? i couldnt find an option for it when i tried a nighly livecd a few weeks ago
any great changes after upgrade?
Where can I access the main menu on Ubuntu 11.04? Intuitive my butt. Everything so hard to find. Where do I friggin find it? Still haven't found the systems or administrative menu either! :(
True. But when run on Windows 7 it's flawless, which sucks. I'm looking for reasons not to migrate back :-P I want to get hooked in this !
thanks man!
Anyone know if it's possible to recover data from a harddrive with a broken NTFS partition from a ubuntu liveCD? My friend accidentally plugged out the power from his sisters computer as windows was doing a service pack update...
depends on the user, but for me from a previous version of Ubuntu, uhmm no not really
hi, in gnome, i used Alltray, to put apps in the systray -- is this possible in unity and how? hints & tips?
RT MarkSS :)
Also, if you want to open one of the downloaded files, you can do so from the Downloads window.
RT?
sebsebseb that just showed me how to get to 11
hypetech hmm still not working :(
you should be able to
I need to go from 10.04 to 10.10
can anyone help me in PM?
good :)
:(
MarkSS:<retweet> i echo your sentiment there...
are maverick apt repositories still going to work?
hi
That is all gone with unity. If you don't like the new interface, you can log off, and pick Classic Gnome (or is it classic ubuntu) from your login menu.
i.e. receive updates
i have no apache package and now i'm gonna install it so I was looking for it > "apt-cache search apache" and there would be lots of packages.. and now i'm jsut wondering which one i have to install?
I don't know much about PHP specifically sorry
Unity SUCKS
system  > administration > update maanger
How do I send people private messages?
Thats not necessary here.
Well, he says that it tells him to format the harddrives to use them. Know any tools or it?
sebsebseb im there
try Gnome Shell I guess then or something :)
exe is probably WINE
alex13, /msg
why
do "/msg <name> text here"
How can I change the font size in unity's panel on ubuntu 11.05 ? It doesn't change when modifying Fonts (in Appearance).
<?php `git pull`;
ive tried multiple times to get installer for 11.04 work but no go
Where do I find Nautilus preferences?
anybody got any ideas?
I cannot find anything. I knew I should've stayed with 10.10
markSS, give unity a week and make sure you are using keyboard shortcuts. it will grow on you.
10.04
11.04
ah right I see
 /msg alex13   Hello alex13
#ubuntu-offtopic
under edit
haha
i hated unity too at first, now i love it
Yes, but I can't even right-click most stuff to create launchers...
Did you listen to what I just told you? You can use the old desktop interface if you'd like.
Which browser runs flash the best in ubuntu 10.04 64 bit??
maybe we should stick to LTS only and hope 12.04 LTS fixes this issue
Yes, I know
?
ive found that flash runs crappy in firefox
unity is just terrible and compiz no longer works....is it better just to wipe and reinstall 10.10 ?
Then stop complaining.
i have no apache package and now i'm gonna install it so I was looking for it > "apt-cache search apache" and there would be lots of packages.. and now i'm jsut wondering which one i have to install?
no idea?
/join #php    :)
apache2
unity is the ui from nbr?
!topic
Please read the channel topic whenever you enter, as it contains important information. To view it at any time after joining, simply type /topic
yes
apache2
haha will do :)
is anyone else having trouble when upgrading using the alternate iso when it gets to fetching files. mine stops at the same point everytime
Yes.
Are libreoffice and openoffice the same thing? They look like it. Done complaining. Going to give it a try.
im amazed how resistant linux users (of all people) are to a gui change.
are maverick apt repositories still going to receive updates?
use apache2 ;)
!Lamp > romeo0
romeo0, please see my private message
Please look up the stockholm effect
sebsebseb pm
what about the unknown window? and does this backspace thing happen the same in all apps
resistant to a terible gui
yes same thing
So does Unity work with dual monitors? I can't get it to work with my ATI 5770 with Xinerama enabled. Clearly, the issue is that xinerama doesn't support compiz, so how do I get dual monitor support with Unity?
yes
i run linux to screw around with and have fun with the OS and gui
Libre is a fork of OpenOffice. Its now the officially suppoedo ne
Also after using backspace more than once, all keys lag
It does work on dual monitors, quite well.
not to be forced to conform to 2nd rate code
could also be that unity has improved a lot over the last 6 months, like from crashing every few minutes to um, actually working?
Yes. It doesnt reach end of life until april 2012.
apache2 - Apache HTTP Server metapackage
thanks!
Coty91, you could try the opensource ati drivers instead of fglrx
you may have to enable the upgrade for 10.10.  keep it in the channel,  there are other people who should be able to help you better than I :)
there was a coup after the oracle thing, they're not the same but libreoffice is the one most developers left to, since oracle wasn't going to form a foundation for the project
sebsebseb yeah how do I do that?
I cant find the option for it.
r000t, do trust. i know where gnome3 and classic ubuntu are at. i am NOT a hostage to anything
It seems faster
it should show in upgrade manager, but if not, uhmm probably in there some where to get it showing or something
 X   buttons at all????
it's stuck there?
my overall point is that it's not from the upgrade, but it can be found out where it is
sebsebseb i cant find it
I know its gotta be in there
galamar nope it's all gone
it's a bit faster, and has new features, like native svg handling. Its a good program.
switch to classic or reinstall 10.10
why?
they are part of the top panel now
so 11.04 is a fail?
no
no
i am drunk... and everything is moving too fast for me... g'nyt...
yes
maybe you should just stay on 10.04,  10.10 and 11.04 don't really offer that much  proper advantage, well in my opinion :)
well it doesnt work
Yea, It did work great with the open source drivers, but as soon as I installed fglrx it no longer works. Problem is I don't know how to remove the ATI drivers since I didn't it manually.
not at all
computer freezed. hardbooted and then ran reset in recovery mode resulting this outpu
jsebean most definitely a fail
t
#ubuntu-offtopic
James2nd,
plus 10.04 is Long Term Support :)
i would like for it to work, for me it is a fail
users are the fail for not trying the new unity interface for more than a week
i cannot even install it
visit your optometrist, you need new glasses.
jiohdi, so how am i to move my windows around?
I really want 11.04 to work for me.  Really bad!
Coty91, used a deb or ati's own installer?.
Download a fresh iso. Best way to do it.
installer is black, ive tried redownloading, buring and usb
nope not it
computer freezed. hardbooted and then ran reset in recovery mode resulting this output
intel or nvidia?
I found it im good.
I used the ATI installer
remember everyone is still grumbling about the osx buttons from 10.04 lol
intel
go back to 10.10
Hello, I am trying to install Ubuntu 11.04, but in the add partition section's "Use as" menue, I don't see NTFS file system which I need. How I can use that file system?
Intel GMA 4500M graphics
move them where?
report a bug
realistically.. i mean 10.10 runs fine but i can't even boot 11.04... any tips?
will do
jiohdi, around
reboot, brb
then you can use the uninstall probably, and just remove/rename your x conf
you cant install onto an NTFS file system
!Unity
if you want to mount an NTFS storage device automatically, you can set that up post-install
not sure, can you still boot normally and choose Ubuntu in the session manager at the login screen?
unity is designed for touch screen primarily, its not the best set up for a desktop imho
So does everybody love or hate unity?
hate.
:D
Thanks, I'll give it a shot.
Chrome is default browser but xchat opens links in Firefox after upgrade
HATE
#ubuntu-offtopic
yes but i only get classic look
but no way to do that now?
love (though it toke time + learning the keyboard shortcuts)
but you'll get trolled by ego feests that will tell you you need to go to offtopic
Sorry, couldn't resist.... But really can't tell much about the screen you showed us
 you cant install *directly* on an ntfs file system.  if you use Wubi from Windows, you can install into an ext4-formatted file on an NTFS drive
oh look theres one :)
While it does support touch screens nicely, it also works great for the layout, what with all the built-in keyboard shortcuts
#ubuntu-offtopic
I have mixed feelings over Unity :D
yes but i only get classic look
^ ;)
its not as bad as people make it, but i prefer gnome 3 on 11.04 over unity
meh, I'm not sure beyond that :(
no, just set it up in /etc/fstab after you install
jiohdi, how did that become an issue it worked before?
I know that.
#ubuntu-offtopic
apt-cache search apache2   so how could i find out that which one that i have install?
so is icewn
it's just a bunch of colored lines. it looks like it's a driver issue but i don't know.
i think i am the only one on the planet who actually likes Unity :(
and yeah indeeed Gnome  Shell :)  when it works, and Unity okish when it works
no problem. thank you anyway :)
I don't wanna install Ubuntu there, I just want to spare the 45 GB space to another drive which I need in NTFS.
hi, I am trying to report a bug to launchpad, this bug affect 2 packages
in the field «In what package did you find this bug? »  can i add  these 2 packages here ?
*icewm
it's not ego, this channel exists for a reason, and that is not it
agreed, which is why I run both ;)
is it just me or does Unity feel very unsmooth?
*blackbox
you said, I can do that right? If so, which file system should I select now?
anyhthing is better then unity
just you epyx
probably not just you :)
I just switched to fvwm-crystal
#ubuntu-offtopic
who made Unity
just apt-get install apache2 . It'll work. if you want the whole lamp-stack, do tasksel lamp-server^
Do you know if there are any upsides to using fglrx opposed to the open source drivers?
jiohdi, can i remove unity?
a moron
wont it let you just leave empty space?
mainly Canonica's design team people
Hello, I can't get my computer to boot from USB, it always works the first time i put it in and it boots
games
but i can never do it after that
#ubuntu-offtopic
I'm on Unity now, but I'll prolly roll back to lxde soon enough
i'm going to be introducing a non-computer person to ubuntu... should i put them on unity?
indeed
you can install a bunch of alternatives and then just pick the one you like at login
you could pick any available one for now if you wanted to setup an empty partition and then format it after the install
no
installed 11:04 in a vm.  did not have 3d turned on.  turned graphics off and gave me gnome 2.x.  is there a way to reset the process to get unity?
give them 10.10
ati users, remember that the new offical ati driver is out for 11.04. try that first.
Ah, well I use windows for that. Thanks again!
okay, I will do that. Thanks!
sure, if they don't know about anything it'll be their computing experience
ok I can give you a proper lnk for getting Unity working in Virtualbox :)
jiohdi, how did unity get on my system?
unity needs years of dev and perhaps so testing next time
yes, it's great for new people imo
you're going to need to get 3D drivers for your vm
its the new default
there's a special setup?
on the natty he can choose between unity and classic
vmware and vbox both have extensions for installing in the guest OS for that
yes it needs to be done right, or it won't work
it had it, you weren't paying attention
damn unity is huge
what is unity
also you need some sort of hardwae accelleration on the host it seems, ok going to get you the link
at login you have can still go back to other alternatives already installed
unity is a plugin for compiz
I am sorry about this question in advance, but can anyone suggest any non-technical IRC channel?
the new shell in 11.04
the new default interface for 11.04
a new linux MMORPG
shhhh!
unity the replacement for gnome in 11.04
umm... #defocus?
for ubuntu or...?
Hi, I have a Acer Aspire 4810T laptop, I press FN+LEFT to reduce screen brightness and FN+RIGHT to increase screen brightness. Since the update to Natty, the OSD appears, but brightness doesn't change ... :(
it's a shell on top of gnome
so if for example you got Comipz working on the host, then you got the hardware acceleration :)
jiohdi, ok where do i get alternatives are they already there?
unity is a useless window manager implemented in 11.04 to replace gnome the far superior window manager
no, it is not a replacement for gnome
unity is gnome
gnome applications and libraries and services are all still there
ok let's get you the link :)
correct
Im trying to boot my computer from a USB, but it always works the first time and then I can never boot from it
there are a few hundred channels on this server, plus if you just join a random one that doesn't exist, it will create it
99.99% of what "gnome" is, is not the window manager
i stand corrected
the type of that partition will be logical or primary?
i can use comipz, but don't have it currently turned on
Unity is built on top of GNOME
depends how many partitions you have already
when you login, before you hit enter, there is a choser on the login screen, it is a drop down box
but u cant install 11.04 because it doesnt work with my laptops backlight dont work with it
report a bug
 you can have up to 4 primary or 3 primary + 1 logical and the logical containing a LOT of extended
great it should be removed then easily and not be so huge
does unity have no options?
ok, how do Irese
i saw a lot of that long before the release even, nobody filed bugs
hmm
if you are set to auto login in you should go to your settings and change it to request password
no, it's a compiz plugin, try ccsm
do "ccsm" and click on the unity button
Hi
unity wiped out the desktop sphperes and all the setting i had on my machine since 8.04
i made the assumption that it would be fixed by final release
hi maco
long time no chat
next time ill make a report before final is released, because i did try the beta and alpha and had same issue
Is there a way to format an entire disk with a filesystem during the install? i.e. not have a partition table?
Hey guys
they're still there
I just want to use it as a regular drive, primary will be better for that, or logical? I have many other partitions already.
so, u mentioned something about vbox drivers?
I tried dd the iso image to an usb but that did not work, I am in a different distro and would like to install ubuntu on a seperate partition using USB stick, any suggestions?
I like the idea of Unity but it feels like I'm using a mac; in the sense, that I have little power over changing and customizing the experience now.
from a live CD
hello. how could I change the desktop layout in 10.10 to a more "standard" one?
they were just displayed by nautilus before
primary & logical have no bearing on how you use it in most cases (exception is that windows refuses to boot from logical)
really....
no, from the altinstaller
well that's actsaully the goal of Canonical now, to compete more properly against the Mac OS X interface
is there a way to sync the file tree to the current file in gedit?
if you have 3 primary already, then id make it logical
ok how do I reset all desktop settings to get a fresh new install desktop
"show me where this is"
cause right now i got for stupid desktop s side by each and my extra monitor won't open a thing
what I am telling you is that you have to be running the live cd and then chose gparted
coty91, this is true. i hope we get advanced customizations for unity asap
do you speak for them?
How do I make a panel launcher prompt me to sudo it?
If I download an iso with torrent, it's not possible to be corrupted, right ?
er four
I just installed Ubuntu 11.04 and I'm wondering how to set my DNS servers. I've tried setting servers in /etc/resolv.conf but it doesn't appear to have any effect. Where are DNS server settings stored now?
I have more than 3 primary already.
(Prompt me with a GUI, that is.)
no I just read stuff about Linux distro's and so on here and there, so I know things :)
you have it, open ccsm
you have 4 primary?
put gksudo in front of the command
unity not good with multiple monitor ?
of course it can. that's what the md5 is for
it's possible, but unlikely. the torrent file itself contains hashes used to verify the contents.
VCoolio, awesome, thank you. :-)
that's kinda annoying, i never have the livecd
Permission denied (publickey).
if you've "read" things, chances are you know nothing
most probably, I am not sure. I did it long time ago.
ohsix, i have ccsm, tell me how to move unity to the bottom of the screen? yep, you cant
depends where I  read something
you have to be running in such a way that nothing you are doing is touching the hard drive
ubuntu-offtopic.
if  it was for example the offical blogs from Mark Shuttleworth or  Canonical Design team, which for my Mac OS X comment, if I remember correctly it indeed was, then sure I know something :)
nope, unless canoncical said it, it's speculation
unity is useless they need to redo that whole section and put back gnome
er, yes, I am, I've booted qemu from the altinstall cd
ayecee, Yes I've heard that.
youd need to delete one and replace it with a logical then put a few extended in there.  (this is not an ubuntu thing, just a hard disk thing)
I'm really hoping the reason for it is that they had a limit amount of time to build Unity before release.
panels in 10.10 = massive customization potential... unity = not so much
anyone know how to upgrade to 11.04 from maverick? i got strange errors...
Feel free to pick classic gnome from GDM if you want to use that.
I just have installed Natty, and my computer doesn't recognize my wifi network !
my hard disk is an image file, i want to install onto it with no partition table because otherwise i'll have to ess about dd'ing the filesystem out of the image
gaurav_sood91, what is the error ?
gnome is not gone, you can still use it as a desktop session, pick it from the login screen
"sudo do-release-upgrade"
natty is doing great things for this IRC channel.
heh?
conversely, they did not have infinite time, and it was released
okay then.
 4 big things allowed.
it's a bit disapointing in a way no where near 2000 people this time round
I just have installed Natty, and my computer doesn't recognize my wifi network !  What can I do ?
I think I'll try out fedora...
anybody using mindmapping software XMind
unless you have a question or are assisting someone i suggest you take your comments elsewhere
okay, going to install now. Thanks! :)
rhizmoe, thanks.
unity seems a bit strange to use though
Good afternoon / night everyone
Fedora isn't all that great imo. Try Arch it's waay better.
(unless we use you know uhmm rounded numbers.  since that way over 1500 so it is)
if i use a usb liveCD and then install from it, will the settings that I had setup in the liveCD carry over?
I have a folder ~/Desktop/TV Serials/Himym - when i try to search "TV Serials" it finds the folder. When I search "Himym" it finds nothing. Does this happen to you?
dont know of any program that can do exactly that but one of those systems that can copy hard drive to hard drive by hardware means
:[
cyoz1, Fedora is really good, as long as you don't need anything proprietary. It's a very nice distro.
I do not think so no.
somebody should add that to the topic
are you promoting that post?
unity is a wannabe osx gui that's all i see
I just have installed Natty, and my computer doesn't recognize my wifi network ! what can I do?
unity is a plugin for a window manager
naw, its not my blog. but it was very helpful to me (getting weather app back etc)
i'd take beOS even over unity
exit()
quit()
try plugging into a wired network and starting up the hardware driver manager. it'll search the internet for a wireless driver
i tried out the 11.04 liveCD and there was no Unity, it looked exactly the same as my 10.10 install
is it a broadcom or ralink chip? (lspci / lsusb)
plug it in ethernet and then install driver. broadcom drivers are pathetic in this respect
er, i think you aren't understanding me. I have booted the alternate install CD and it wants to partition the disk in the install process; is there a way to just make it create the filesystem on /dev/sda
unity is a massive plugin that wipes out all your settings and forces you to conform to a new way of setting up your desktop
broadcom
Likely due to lack of acceleration video drivers.
macrossm, what?
there is no plan, unless you speak for canonical and are making said plans, do not spread misinformation
the driver is installed, I already done that
really ? is that the canonical plan to complete against osx ? :(
you probably need to install the firmware then, as it's not redistributable
is your rfkill switch enabled?
you know what, if I  really wanted, to I could find the blog post,  that said they are competing agasint Mac OS X more,  but I am not sad enough to go and do that :)
banshee is buggy as fuck
are you trollling with these guys?
and have you rebooted since installing the drivers
Please watch your language and topic to help keep this channel family-friendly, polite, and professional.
ups
macrossm, bug #1 is windows has the market share.. not osx
understood
if you have an unformatted disc it will have to format it first... if you do not want it to format the whole disk you can make partitions where it will only format the unformatted partition you chose
10.10 was awesome i wish they hadn't of done this
cyoz1, yeah banshee is slow as well ... i am sticking with rhythmbox
its always a bad idea to copy something from apple
 * sebsebseb ok it's about to be V :) so bye for now people
I rebooted, what is rfkill ?
perhaps making unity the new option to try insteaqd of forcing it
then hold your tongue, it would only be appropriate to discuss on #ubuntu-offtopic anyways
I want it to format /dev/sda as ext4, instead of creating partitions and formatting that
the goal with unity and osx lion was more focus on full screen apps. if you think about the gui with that in mind it helps ease the transition to unity
I'm having some trouble with 11.04 my graphics driver for my laptop is an ATI Mobility Radeon HD 4250 so I installed the drivers from the additional drivers program and now when I reboot the boot screen is pixled some and looks weird
it is an option
sebsebseb, what he said, was that we should aim for OS Xs smoothness and user friendlyness. I agree. I think we've far surpassed Windows' in that area. We need to keep raising our standards.
why? It worked properly on 10.10
lol at people like you
they did it backwards indeed. lol
the "turn off wireless because im in an airplane / want to save battery" button or switch
there is nothing on the disk, not even a partition table, and I do not want to create a partition table
it is just the default
can try    sudo rfkill --unblock all
thanks. So I have a question. On my 10.10 I have to use proprietary nvidia drivers which allow my screen to have the proper resolution and for compiz to work but make my plymouth look terrible.  When I used 11.04 liveCD everything looked fine, but there was no Unity. Does this mean I'll have to go to proprietary drivers again in 11.04 for Unity?
guess they are tired of hearing about the terrible rls
right
go try some other distro's lol
unity is a compiz plugin
anyway TV time bye
Probably, yes
Scarra3, ati has released offical drivers for 11.04 ati cards. i will link you
firmware filenames change with kernel versions, look at the output of dmesg and see if the driver is finding it's firmware
the default should be the default i would be more then happy to test out and learn a new gui gradually
Hey folks, is it worth upgrading to 11.04?
#ubuntu-offtopic
 can you explain more clearly please
never touch a running system
btw, is 11.4 (from ati) included in 11.04?
you have had many months to try it out gradually
so unity is a compiz plugin or a gnome plugin ?
How can I enable desktop effects in Ubuntu 11.04? I have proprietary drivers installed.
it asks me to select a mount point for the partition, and I selected FAT32, and the mount point is /dos and /windows, which one should I select?
hi
internal server error on ubuntu bug tracker
really ? i have cause running beta is a great idea
dmesg shows kernel messages if ran in a terminal; the driver says when it's loading its firmware; so you check that it has
how can i disable this excessively large dropshadow on 11.04?
whatever you want it to be named. you can always change this later
i tried compiz/window decoration, but that doesn't change anything
should even be able to type it in
okay.
if you want it to show like a flash drive would, then put it under /media
there is no other option but /dos and /windows
you can adjust the ccsm settings, but i don't know if you can; smspillaz had a blog post about getting overlapping shadows to not over darken & i think thats the fixed output from that
my upgrade failed, dpkg is now corrupted, but I have a liveCD.  How to recover?
fixed in the sense that there are few options iirc, but the ones there are will be in ccsm
hi guys, I joined few hours ago asking about how to fix my gnome-panels, well, I fixed them; I just went to GDM menu and changed the session, I selected 'classic session' and done, problem fixed.
chroot into the system and rund "sudo dpkg --configure -a"
ubumtu
why did unity wipe out my settings in compiz ? i had a sphere with 4 desktops and two running vbox windows in them
hm, it has to be set somewhere
it wont let you type in there?
how can i get all that back
right now i can just disable all decoration, or have this huge shadow
if you can boot the normal system do that and run the command then you dont need a chroot
that somewhere might not be something you can change without a rebuild, is what i was saying
no. :S
So what happened to the netbook version of ubuntu
unity did not do that
it is no more
they just change out there whole website
switch to classic ubuntu = login screen -> look at bottom panel -> change "ubuntu" to "ubuntu classic" -> login -> done
because i use focus-follows-mouse, the abrupt change of the shadow is quite distracting
why not
compizchanging from version .8 to .9 did
macrossm, when you updated it should have prompted you if you had any conflicting configuration files
did that still have nothing
heya, anyone able to help me check this issue out. I see a white _ on boot and my hard drive swirls a bit then seems to halt and no os is booted at all, what could be wrong?
and i opened ccsm all settings gone
netbook was a normal ubuntu with unity
ah.  there is a slider for shadow, but it doesn't seem to have any effect
iceroot, chroot'd and running dpkg now, got a bunch of warnings about dpkg status file syntax
could someone help with an ops. I somehow created a loop script of x11vnc, can someone help me find it and delete it?
I know it was the normal ubuntu with a UI
pastebin
should have*
it tries to migrate some settings but far from all of them are migrated
do you see a bootloader before that?
I wanted to get it for my roommates netbook
bleh, scrollback.
sgaap, nope
you can manually transfer the settings, they are still in gconf
how can I kill a connection to a peer without killing the service or filtering it with iptables and waiting to timeout ?
hrm :(
the normal desktop version is the new "netbook" version, it's the same now.  unity is a good interface for the netbook so it should be fine
Bisa, you can use a live cd to reinstall grub, or do it via the bios with efi
if you have edi that is
hunt has a tool to do that, it discovers sequence numbers and sends rst's to both ends
Oh they are the same now
version number does not start with digit
Ok that makes sense
i think theres a tool to do just that, but i  forget the name
Thanks for the help hypetech
ok, first hurdle, dual screen setup with unity?
guys i dunno if canonical see any of this ...but it's pretty sad i spent months perfecting my laptop and now it's shot after the 11.04 upgrade ...unity is terrible and shouldn't have been set as the default
Yes good point
ohsix, hunt ?
one of your ppas is broken, you should purge them all before you attempt an upgrade
sgaap, Im currently on a live but dunno if I want to dable with grub due to my dual boot setup, is it smart enough to recognize my win install?
I need to be able to run dual screen too
my desktop still has 10.10 and i will never change that
the shadow is configured in the metacity theme such as  /usr/share/themes/Ambiance/metacity-1/metacity-theme-1.xml in the shadow tags, set them to radius 0 and the shadow is gone, (or just shrink them)...best idea is probably to copy it to ~/.themes/ , change the name and make your edits
never touch a running system, so its your fault
it should be
yeah it's my fault
is there a command in terminal i can enter to do that?
you can just use the other desktop interface...
that is your opinion, and you had an opportunity to voice it before release
i have a backup from 2 weeks ago will have to restore that
thanks!
sgaap, so, google reinstall grub or something?
you don't have to use unity with 11.04
i'm not now i changed
you can remove them under synaptic packagemanager under repositories
go to login screen -> look at bottom panel -> change "ubuntu" to "ubuntu classic" -> login -> done
as i've said your compiz settings are still there, they are just not being read by compiz .9
hi....how to mount a rar file in ubuntu 10.10...anyother alternative than rar2fs ?
but all my settings are gone
look at "cutter"
Bisa, depends on which version of grub you have
make a backup of that file, then edit it and remove the string "version" from that line
laser you don't mount an rar
also its a good idea to open a bug with that
extract it
hola
open with archive manager
everything that exists to do it only does uncopmressed archives
you can view the files inside without extracting if that is what you mean
iceroot, bah. hundreds of them.
thanks
is there any software for linux that allows me to screenshot a section of my screen? I've used some before where you can scale around this box and clikc 'capture'.  Anything out there?
sgaap, dunno, where do I find out / guess in the file system somewhere, or can I somehow boot into it from the live session?
but I can mount tar files
llutz, thanks
How do I install xfce 4.8 on natty? I already installed a shitload of apps before finding out that unity just doesn't run at all for me
just press screenshot or shift-screenshot
aufs can do it but it is no better than extracting it entirely, because that is what it does
sed s/^version// :)
and remeber the backup!!!
"Processing was halted because there were too many errors."
fff.
No Compiz on 11.04?
prtscr or whatever abbreviation of printscreen your keyboard uses
acicula, my problem is that i want a section of my browser, not the tabs and everything with it
nope
it has compiz
  sudo apt-get install xfce4
they've removed it
its the "take screenshot" app (yes that is the name)
1. root (hx.x), where x.x is your disk and partition, 2 setup (hd0) and then quit (this is from the grub shell, just type grub on the cli)
ninjai, ubuntu has screenshot
it does not have compiz
unity is compiz, with a unity plugin
just edit the screenshot with gimp
all setting are overridden by unity
you are not listening to me
none of the features work
jiohdi, if xfce works.. can i also remove all gnome shizzle?
assuming your bootdisk is the first one
I know ubuntu has screenshot capabilities, but I want to take a screen of a specific section
Fresh install of Ubuntu 11.04 AMD64 on a disk with Windows 7 Pro.  Installation involving encryption and lvm went smoothly and grub installed.  After rebooting I found the first option in grub doesn't boot the machine just a flashing cursor.  The second option I think it's labeled safe or recovery boots ok.  I've tried update grub and also tried reinstalling grub.  Any ideas?
hypetech , what about the Cube?
you can keep saying it has compiz
if you are going to persist you will be removed
but you know why people run compiz
of course it has compiz
for the fancy features and none work for uniuty
nanjai the take screenshot app will allow you to do that
it's in the settings, but my computer can't run it so I haven't turned it on
applications > accessories > take a screenshot
i am running compiz, you are lying to people
you should keep most of it as your gnome programs may require some of them
remember, disk 1, partition 1 is hd (0,0) in grub 1
and this is a help channel
then tick grab a section u want to grab
Is 11.04 the stable version or only beta??
the screenshot makes a screenshot at the resolution of the desktop, you can just edit it from there?
stable as of today
now stable
i'm running it too no plugins work except the unity one which is lame
alright
thanks
i even explained why you are seeing what you are seeing
sgaap, no its the hd3 I think, but Im not sure how to go from here really, Ive got a live ubuntu usb stick in where I can access irc ^^
i guess it's safe to remove gnome-shell? I tried installing it, but not much luck either
!ops
Help! Channel emergency! (ONLY use this trigger in emergencies) - elky, Madpilot, tritium, Nalioth, tonyyarusso, PriceChild, Amaranth, jrib, Myrtti, mneptok, Pici, jpds, gnomefreak, bazhang, jussi, Flannel, ikonia, maco, h00k, IdleOne, nhandler, bilalakhtar, Jordan_U, or rww!
the computer recognizes my iphone hostspot but not my wifi network
whats the emergency?
acicula, it's too much work.  gimp takes a long time to load, then i need to create a new file of the specific size of the data i am snagging out, then save it... its way easier just to draw a box on my screen, click 'capture' or something.
yes after you get the xfce you can uninstall whatever you do not want
does canonical release a new version every 6 months whether or not the version is really stable? Are they very locked into the 6 month timeline?
no fire, didn't realize you were an op, just needed eyes
Bisa, if you have booted into a livecd you can use the grub command to get into the grub command line
\
6.06 was delayed by two months
eyes for what?
go to the Take Screenshot app. open it. select "grab an area" and select your area. done
please only call !ops if there is a serious reason
dunno if there is a program that lets you do that, you can hold shift or ctrl to modify what section printscreen captures though
sgaap, ah, I see, cheers
noted
there you can set your linux root and install it with setup (hd0) into your mbt
for macrossm
guys the screenshot app allows you to capture a smaller area, no need for gimp
he was hoping to alret you to my complaints about releasing beta software in a major release
but no release will be bug-free, when few people test more than a month before release :(
could someone help with an ops. I somehow created a loop script of x11vnc, can someone help me find it and delete it?
thanks.  that worked great
well, no release will be bug-free, period ;-) but having bug reports with actual time to complete them is nice!
#ubuntu-offtopic
the computer find my Iphone Hostpot but not my wifi network
its taking 98 hours to UPDATE!!
(also help with fixing them is also nice. if you want to help join #ubuntu-bugs)
macrossm, yea this not #ubuintu-complain
sgaap, right, got grub installed now
slow download speed?
is your wifi network running on a very high channel?
oh sweet. I can install with the alternate cd and not have to use the new gnome
hm thats interesting
oh i see. Is there a huge jump in # of adopters AFTER its considered out of beta?
you can do that with the normal cd
if everything went ok you should see grub after a boot now
yes
updating ubuntu right now is like shopping at best buy during Dec 23rd. you know what you are getting into
oh, I must have missed the option. I'll check that out thanks :)
there is no new gnome, there is a new default session that uses compiz and the unity plugin as a window manager
Bisa, if they value for root is wrong, you can change it by changing the entries
nutsfornatty, yes but it's so tempting :D
is there Cube on 11.04?
like, i think channel 13 is europe-only (or only recently added to the US?) ... in which case your driver might not look that high by default
is there an xterm replacement that uses tabs? screen is kind of a pain for local stuff.
when you go to log in, you can select "Ubuntu Classic" for your session
with "e" from grub
iit's on the login screen :]
thanks for that clarification
sgaap, just to be sure, what exactly did I have to type if I wanted to install grub on hd3?
! thanks :)
You're welcome! But keep in mind I'm just a bot ;-)
i'm switching to ubuntu from 20 years of windows and i love the ideology of ubuntu but it still seems kind of hodge podge at best so far (my experience with 10.10). It could just be my hardware though. I hope to report on bugs though.
I've had similar issues with kindles refusing to connect to channel 1 and 14.
Is there a way to point do-release-upgrade at an ISO file? I downloaded the ISO like 14 hours ago before it was on all the mirrors
to check if that is the case (that maco said) you can run sudo iw reg getin a terminal
i need a game for a really low video card
but my wifi was working fine on 10.10
ccsm doesn't open on my second nor does anything else after the upgrade ...any ideas ?
lots of replies to requests for checking on reproducibility of a reported bug in the devel release (so we know whether to spend resources on it) are of the form "ok, well i'll let you know when its beta" or "i'll check after the stable release" .. which is way too late
Bisa, you need to set the root of you linux partition with root (hd2,partition) then and install it with setup (hd0), this is assuming you boot from your first disk
I'd recommend just burning the ISO and doing the upgrade from the boot
Rehan, hodge podge? oh yes but only best hodge podge.
it will tell you the current regulatory restrictions
maybe this will work better -
try the indy humble games? revenge of the titans runs well on my system
hello. is there any way to switch to the previous layout of the desktop? this layout in ubuntu 10.10 is just useless
Well this is on a remote server that I don't have physical access to
Bisa, if linux is on your first partition of your 3th disk that would be hd(2,0)
thanks for telling people that, i don't have  the energy for it :]
ok
I'm running 11.04 on a MacBook Pro (with norwegian layout). Out of the box the modifier keys (ctrl, alt, shift, cmd) work like they should for launcher, unity and workspaces, but I can't get to the symbols I get in osx with shift-cmd-<number-key>.
is it a virtual machine where you could mount the iso then reboot?
select classic ubuntu at login
ok, gnome-terminal has tabs. silly me.
go to login screen -> look at bottom panel -> change "ubuntu" to "ubuntu classic" -> login -> done
pick "classic desktop" on the login screen
i have autologin set on
hello, update to 11.04 crashed on my laptop, os isn't working now, how can i fix that?
it could just be my hardware but setting up ubuntu 10.10 wasnt easy at all
what if my machine automatically logs in?
Nope, dedicated box. I assume I could just mount the ISO right?
sgaap, hmmz, Im pretty confident that I changed the boot order in my bios to first boot from my hd3 disk is that the same thing_
ugh autologon
11.04 not able to do multiple screens yet ?
can you rewrite the command please, I think you didn't write it corrctly
thats why I was wondering whats considered a stable release
you know your keyring has to be insecure to do that as well
Rehan, most likely your hardware.. ubuntu 10.10/.04 was incredibly stable
i've already tried everything i found on the internet
you could mount the iso but I'm not sure if it can upgrade while it's booted.  I haven't tried that way
Bisa, you need to do the setup (hdX) to whatever disk your bios boots from
sure
"sudo iw reg get"
then turn it off, in the system settings when you click your username - top right
thats a big tradeoff :[
you mean unicode symbols? try ctrl+shift+u then the code, enter
sgaap, right, lemmi give that a go
grub2 counts partitions from 1 (grub1 started at 0)
i get the feeling that ubuntu works really well on stuff 5 years old and pretty poorly on stuff 1-2 years old.  Is that correct?
you can mount isos in grub if that helps
that is incorrect
Bisa, im not sure if those insctructions are valid for grub 2, havent got any hands-on experience with that
Rehan, wrong..
it depends on the hardware.
hardly
it depends on people reporting bugs
damn ubuntu uses 100% cpu for no reason
I think it looks like "hoge poge" to you because you are not used to it. Sometimes different appears as broken. Sometimes an application doesn't preform as we expect it to and we believe it is irratic or irrational.
the ones I miss most are square and curly brackets. hard to program without them. is that unicode symbols?
theres a  reason, interested in finding it?
ubuntu using 3% here and i have quite a few apps open
hm in natty nvidia-settings always says "cannot open /etc/X11/xorg.conf for writing" thus making my changes (two monitor configuration) vanish on restart
cyoz1, there is always a reason
please do feel free to file bugs on what you think is wrong and also ones for the Hundred Papercuts project on usability bugs
Ok- how can i deteremine why x11vnc is opening infintietly
*erratic
how i can share IGMP over shared connection between two lan cards???
what's the terminal irc client in case i have issues?
i'm def no linux master but I appreciate the difference in looks and user interface. I don't mind that at all. I just haven't experienced an ubuntu install yet where I didn't have to scour through forum posts to get hardware to work properly.
irssi
irssi is a popular one
irssi
you run it with sudo?
ty
maco, to be fair some hardware issues can't be solved that way.. most of them are issues with the manufacturer
What is the best way to remote into linux from a windows desktop
Is there a way to keep audio working when you hot switch from an X session to a tty session?
ssh/putty or vnc
what do you recommend
configure remote desktop sharing
acicula, shutter does what I require.
how i can share IGMP over shared connection between two lan cards????
putty for command line, vnc for graphical interface
maco, but at least you'll know about them
once you log in to the tty the audio should continue
No video mode selected. how can i hide this message ?
do you want a terminal or graphics
I need the graphical as I am running stuff on it for servers
problem #1 is searching forums for _solutions_
we can do a lot of workarounds in the kernel
my sony vaio and hp pavilion laptops have both had hardware issues on a default install
heu servers and graphical stuff?
yeah
running a server would be the reason why you WOULDN'T use graphical but okay :p  Use VNC for graphical
i only personally know how to do a few audio ones, but i know other subsystems use quirks as well
open Remote Desktop Preferences, and allow people to connect remotely
it is a minecraft server
enable remote desktop under system->preferences and then you can connecgt via vnc
maco, at risks of regressions?
sgaap, thnx for the help, appreciate it - but I think Im just going to revert my bios settings and format and do a clean install
I have those on my keyboard; see if you can assign keys to provide those using xmodmap
People
Rehan, what pavilion do you have?
listen to me
hi, I've played with beta 2 for the last 10 days, upgrading packages as needed. should I install the freshly released one?
it is going to be via lan too
Is god when we have an private eye for ubuntu
accicula do u know how to run iptv on two lan cards?
 the regression potential depends on the manufacturer. there are some *cough*apple*cough* who like to give multiple pieces of hardware the same hardware IDs and revision numbers
then on the Windows computer, install a VNC client like UltraVNC or TightVNC, and specify to connect to the Ubuntu machine by hostname, on display :0
we need a private eye for ubuntu
i don't mind searching forums for solutions.
do you have a support question for us?
at best workarounds, at worst nobody knows what is going on and can't elaborate; so practically speaking, a waste of time if you actually desire remedy
sgaap, got all my data backed up any way, grub and mbr is the next chapter of my linux learning experience me thinks
awesomne
thank you guys
do you have a question?
search bugs
you can but its not needed, if you experience no issues i would not bother
Bisa, np, but i still advice checking the howto for grub 2 if its that, there is also a gui for ubuntu to configure grub2
what do you mean a private eye? it sounds like something that might be better discussed in #ubuntu-offtopic, but i'm not sure
Ahhhh, hardware.  Yes, there are printers that do not have drivers in linux. There are wireless network adapters that do not have fully funtioning drivers. etc.  Yes you are correct. (But that is different. And ... well I could go on, but we should join #ubuntu-offtopci for more.)
has anyone run into an issue with crypt() on natty?
I am still pretty new to linux and are still learning
lacking said bugs, report bugs
what shell command do I run to take a CD installer and copy it to a usb stick?
Bisa, which you should be able to use from a live cd of 11.04
Ok...
Private eye is an security tool for passwords
or ...
sgaap, oh, really, package name listed on that wiki link perhaps?
maco, yea its not ubuntu's fault it doesn't work.. its the hardware manufacturer. and as such you should not support any hw that isn't supported in linux
i agree with the process, I'm just saying that I don't understand what is the definition of stable
or...
you will do fine. :-)
I have used linux before so that I can take files off of a corrupt windows install
this is the easiest way, but for many reasons, running VNC services on a server that is open outside of the LAN is a bad idea due to security risks
for your computer
unetbootin at the prompt
Bisa, let me check
to do what, crack passwords?
to protect your screenn
noo
wait
then the maintainers/packagers will be participating & they can do more than guess or tell you to do something awful that nobody really knows is awful, but accept as valid workarounds
what do you recommend then tensor
The software protect your screen
you said this was for a LAN, right?
command not foud
you want to lock your screen?
how do you get a proper menu style, and not that apple menu style?
maco, at this point, not releaseing drivers for linux is a terrible terrible idea
when anybody look at your screen
Hi, I am currently listening to some internet radio. How can I record it in Ubuntu?
how i can share IGMP over shared connection between two lan cards????
the definition of stable is fixed & supported, by backports of fixes or otherwise
yes lock with a black screen
ok sec
wait a minute
ctrl+alt+L
ubuntu has that by default, it locks after a while
sudo apt-get install startupmanager
is your machine public-routable?
please try to keep your sentences on one line, it's busy here
the offical ati drivers are out for 11.04... no clue about nvidia atm
tried clicking on lock screen instead of logout/halt?
the67pc, gnome-screensaver-control -lock
sgaap, thnx
Bisa; havent tested it myself so im not sure what it can do
top right corner
nooo people
wait
is it out? :)
anyone tell me how to edit videoram in 10.10
it comes with one
quite
Bisa, you should run it with sudo at least
eh, that does not compute
has that dreadful power regression been fixed?
any flight sims for Linux you guys know of?
the one phoronix wrote about?
i can't boot the live 11.04  CD without having a flickering screen with all sorts of colored lines... should i try to upgrade from 10.10 and debug from there? were there any many changes to hardware support in 11.04?
Flight Gear Flight Simulator. In component universe, is extra. Version 2.0.0-3 (natty), package size 2549 kB, installed size 6448 kB
isnt that for a newer kernel?
the document is Brazilian
sgaap, yeap, brb and thnx again ^^
do you mean ram or the BAR/pci stuff?
excellent
i dont think so, still in the lastest kernel release
Monotoko, flightgear
but have a text down with the video
gl
What's the best way to write a BootCD of Ubuntu in Ubuntu?
know of any laptop that would have the same out of the box functionality with Ubuntu as Win7? I must just have bad luck with the two I have
Monotoko - X-plane is best commercial one
just right click an iso and select burn?
you can't read it with google translate
the one phoronix speculates about you mean?
max ubuntu by default in ubuntu is 8 mb
hello all!
which log in /var/log would tell me when the computer restarted?
Rehan, its usually the wireless cards I have issues with
yea probably bad luck
acicula,  Alright- I was just wondering if you needed another application to make it bootable like the Windows ImgBurn/MagicISO etc
for my i915
Thanks though
You don't have to learn Portuguese
haha it looked pretty convincing, especially with the unlabeled X-axes ;)
sam555, syslog should say
uptime will tell you when it last restarted
worst case for me out of lots of trials is nonworking feature keys
:(
is there a way to safely delete my swap partition and add it to my existing filesystem?
it can use 128
not sure
thanks escott and acicula
thats what they do, unfortunately all that they do
but syslog or messages will probably log restart mssges
LAcan, you can swapof
LAcan, swapoff and then grow, but not advisable if you run out of memory
and if you use lvm you can add it while the system is running
yeah i don't even expect those to work ever when i'm installing ubuntu
uhm the67pc, i understand now, but i should warn you that this kind of "face recognition" software is really not  very secure. a good password is better.
oh you want to increase the amount of video memory available
escott, dotblank i have 8GBS of physical memory... is running out a likely problem?
fwiw i have seen very slight temp increases, but if it affects battery life, on my laptop it's like 3 minutes out of 2 hours
layout -> options -> key to choose 3d level -> any alt key = problem fixed :)
I know LjL but, is for security for people don't have a security password
LAcan, no  not likely but a kernel starved of memory does some pretty terrible things
eh, you can set that in the bios for integrated graphics i would think, maybe look at what its set at there? are you sure you can even set it higher then 8Mb?
is there any way to inspect graphics card issues from the natty live cd?
LAcan, I hear you can create a swap file and loopback mount it
That did it! I got up to about 2500 bits and blasted the 2192-bit key through before it could drop again. For some reason the buffer runs down quickly until it gets down to about the 100-200 bit range where it bounces around.
yes
i.e. abort x
LAcan, it could
no... then the desktop switching stopped working... argh.
yeah you can
dotblank, gotcha... now this swapoff... i can just run that through a terminal window?
getting a black screen? intel or nvidia
i want to install ubuntu from an usb drive... from an existing ubuntu system
hello everyone
 i'm not getting a black screen i'm getting a flicekring screen
Leo, excellent mine seems to drop too i'm not sure what could be using entropy you could lsof /dev/random
and the other question?
at least you now know you need 3rd level for those keys; set another key for that
how do i enable ecryptfs for an existing user
bios no
LAcan, yea.. but I don't know if you can grow ext3/4 while running the system on it
ah, intel then?
LAcan, also without swap you can't suspend/resume
in windows it uses drivers
basically i'm running 10.10 fine and i don't see why i can't boot into it. should i just try upgrading? or can i debug like i could if i upgraded from the live CD?
dotblank, i can run swapoff and then boot some other OS to grow the partition... sound right?
LAcan, any grown of a mounted partition must happen offlien
it's on board intel and nvidia
It's complicated.
I can't even install 10.10 from the livecd!
thats ok
LAcan, if you boot into another OS/source you don't even need to swapoff
.__.
echo "/usr/bin/x11vnc -forever -rfbport 5900 -rfbauth ~/.vnc/x11vnc.pass -o ~/.vnc/x11vnc.log -loopbg -display :0" > ~/.kde/Autostart/x11vnc.sh chmod +x ~/.kde/Autostart/x11vnc.sh
reclocking lvds can do that, but it's a bug, reporting it with a picture should be enough, the intel developers know what it is
dotblank, i can just nuke it?
You can easily create an encfs filesystem.
I just installed Ubuntu. Why doesn't it run Unity, but gnome?
LAcan, you should.. and if doesn't let you nuke it then you swapoff
can i give root same ssh keys as an user
But do you want to use it for authentication and encrypt the whole home directory?
where should i report that?
bad advice :[
i just want to enable ubuntus default ecryptfs where it mounts .Private on login in the users home directory
how do i enable 3D cube on 11.04?
this part. /usr/bin/x11vnc -forever -rfbport 5900 -rfbauth ~/.vnc/x11vnc.pass -o ~/.vnc/x11vnc.log -loopbg -display :0
and should i cancel my upgrade of natty until it's fixed
jnlsnl_, yes you can.. the ssh keys are stored in ~/.ssh
in the xorg i just need to add VideoRam    130560  but there is no xorg.conf anymore
im pretty stuck on an issue with crypt() - both my jabber server and any program i try to write complain about crypt() being undefined...and i just can't seem to find what might have happened in the upgrade to cause this
dotblank, maybe aill swapoff just to be safe then boot windows and extend the partition... sound safe?
lsof /dev/random return an empty list here for me. Thank you for your help!
Is gnome the default interface in Ubuntu 11.04 or wht?
jnlsnl_, you can also symlink the entire ~/.ssh folder to your user so they always stay in sync
dotblank so if i cp mu ssh keys from user/.ssh to root/.ssh it should work ?
no, unity is
LAcan, windows will be unable to extend the partition
its a thinkpad x41
I don't know how it works throught the GUI,
well, you can use xorg-edgers after the install probably, chances are it already includes the fix, but with respect to ubuntu it needs the bug reported so they can backport the fix
jnlsnl_, yes
Then why doesn't Unity load, but gnome?!
dotblank, because its ext? i should use a linux grow util like parted then?
how do i enable 3D cube on 11.04?
LAcan, aye
is there no standardized API or something for graphics/resoluiton settings? In Windows no matter which driver you use (and I doubt they are open source) you can manage them from the exact same spot (at least the basic functions) without problem, in Linux with the proprietary drivers you always need to rely on those shitty tools they bring with
dotblank, escott thanks guys, wish me luck!
I've done it manually.
golona
jnlsnl_, you may have permission problems with that
pick the other session on the login screen
Hey! So I need some help with grub
You have to set up pam_encfs
lkll
escott, but he'll be root :)
bad advice
"Setting up python2.7-minimal (2.7.1-5ubuntu2) ...
Linking and byte-compiling packages for runtime python2.7...
Requested versions are not installed"
eh k, got a linky somewhere or something?
Yeah?
ohsix, I tried Ubuntu, Ubuntu classic etc. None is Unity.
how do i get gnome-panel to start by default?
hmm i believe i use edgers on 1.10 now... where should i report this?
what exactly is it you want for a "standard api"
what is the problem?
So what would you suggest?
revolution
doing what he asked to do
 Do you have an ubuntu support question?
symbol not found 'grub_env_export'
is there a way to use xmonad and gnome 3, unity has failed me
I'm running a new Ubuntu installation by the way.
could not find module nvidia_current"  And then the installer seems to have stopped, but nothing has crashed
if I use edgers now will it upgrading to natty downgrade it?
There's some bugs with this issue, but they are several months old and things have been changed afterwards
is this something I should just wait for or try again?
dotblank, unless ssh changes ownership of the file. he could add a host as root and find it broken for jnlsnl_
in windos no matter which driver you use, you can change screen resolution and everything by using the Desktop settings while in Linux you always have to rely on the tools the driver makers provide
you'd need to add it after the natty upgrade
Anyone an idea what the best way to resolve this would be?
Just installed 11.04
jdahm, it is because you don't have the nvidia driver installed
escott, only if he symlinks
hi ... i have a question... will upgrading my distro via the update manager remove my files in /usr and my installations of apache, django, etc
never seen before ... did you upgrade from 10.10?
yeah
i'm pretty sure that the Resolution thing works with any driver you want
ok I've backed everything up I'm just going to give it a go
ok, but I'm just installing 11.04.  Why would it expect that I have it
PHP is run as the "www-data" user right?
BajK, we have xrandr, but nvidia doesn't support it fully
run ecryptfs-setup-private from a terminal
Ignore me then. Apparently I don't know what I'm talking about.
Hi, I am trying to update to ubuntu 11.04 from 10.10 and the update manager is freezing up and then saying to check my internet connection. it's only doing this for the distro update, other updates are fine. Anyone know why that might be? thanks
thats sort of what I expected but how can I make it continue and not worry about that?
Hey everyone... i installed 11.04 and now i can no longer connect to my wifi.. doesnt even show up, other AP's show up.. tested it from my 10.10 box, works fine... any ideas?
if you installed django and apache from apt it wont remove them it will upgrade them
jnlsnl_, thats apache running as www-data, but apache tuns php, so, yes
jdahm, well.. it could have gotten messed up the install. try using the proprietary driver install tool
php runs as www-data
as I said, never seen - but it looks like the upgrade didn't run through completely
How can I downgrade to 10.10 please
I looked around, and I can fix grub from a live CD, but I'd like to know if it has to be 11.04, or...?
What wifi chip is it?
So, does anybody have any clue as to why only gnome loads in a new Ubuntu 11.04 installation?
you very well may, but acicula would not know all the implications of encrypting everything without a lot of work; simply suggesting he enable it is a bad idea
I'm still on the livecd installing...
Ok... i need to somehow give "www-data" the same ssh keys as my "ubuntu" user
will that setup an encrypted home dir or just an encrypted Private directory
it's not even done installing
if your connection is ok maybe flush the dns cache?
it's just sitting there
jdahm, oh well is it continueing regardless?
is there any diference in performance if i setup separate /home partiton and if I don't  ?
oh...
How can I downgrade to 10.10 please?
broadcom.. uses the STA driver soreau
it isnt the only one... I am using fvwm-crystal
Will my data be affected by upgrading ubuntu
Has anyone yet figured out dual head monitors on LXDE or XFCE on 11.04?
just move the important things to encrypted storage
you need pam_enc to be installed probably to integrated mounting the ecryptfs on login
is there any way to switch the handedness of unity?
no, it seems to have stopped.  At least no other output is generated after that
go to login screen -> look at bottom panel -> change "ubuntu" to "ubuntu classic" -> login -> done
no, it *should* work with any (recent) live CD  (but there *should* be no error either :-))
i.e.- dash on the right instead of left
dns cache has nothing to do with a ssid not showing hehe
no ideas?
the ubuntu default these days is to mount ecrypt fs on the users home which is what i want
PLEASE
if no one tells me how to edit wicom i going to debian
if I can do that with my 10.10 cd then all's golden
darkz, ok, i assumed you had a connection because the other updates went fine
jdahm, what graphics card do you have?
debian is a great distro
that is added to that site for 11.04?
How can I downgrade to 10.10 please?
nvidia tesla
nutsfornutty, yes, I already did that and it still loads gnome.
it's for sure not default; people might think they want that but it's a horrible idea
nerdshell, cant
hi
you cant downgrade
jdahm, whaaa
you are still using linux. :-)
reinstall from an old cd
its been that way for a few releases
I get an error with havlet on another installation of natty
anyone knows about a havlet error on install returning code 100
something is not right
it's a current nvidia card
so, I'll just do that with my 10.10 cd. thanks!
my fresh install has no encrypted storage and no clear means to enable any
maybe you are confused? im not talking FDE, but the entire home is encrypted, not just /home/user/Private
Yeah, right, but isn't it supposed to load unity by default?
Hi, hoping someone can help clarify something for me. Just upgraded to Natty, appear to be suffering from the following (quoted from Release Notes) - "Under certain conditions, on systems equipped with nvidia GPUs, focused or maximized windows may be blank". However, the bug it links to (763680) is as follows
jdahm, isn't the tesla serierss those cuda cards?
#
"Dash appears under full screen apps"
yes, but I will lose all of my data =(
i know what you're saying, i'm saying it is no default and a silly idea
JUST ONE QUESTION , WILL I LOSE MY /usr DATA ON UPGRADING UBUNTU TO 11.04
Most of the information should still be relevant I presume
cordoval_, locate havlet returns nothing for me. no idea what that is
burn a cd with your data first
not normally, but a backup is still a good idea. also, please don't SHOUT
yes
was just reading it - I don't see any reason why it would not work with your 10.10 CD
guys how can i configure recordmydesktop to record audio with video ?
you wont lose your data
yes?
it's a modern nvidia card.  It's something like a GTX495 or something
anyone havlet problem returning 100 while installing natty ubuntu
Good luck :-)
okay, thanks!
err, nvm
what do you mean havlet
no it stays there unless you reinstall and format
locate?
ok cuz this is a ubuntu 11.04 issue alone.. 10.10 and less works fine
so my questions, I guess, are as follows - (1) is this fixable? (2) any ideas why the Release Notes appear to link to the wrong bug (or am I missing something)?
where should i report this to?
Right, so I tried every session option(e.g., Ubuntu Classic, Ubuntu) but all load gnome.
(rev a1)
Using it for auth *does* cause problems.
LjL, thanx, but really needed to know that, and the traffic here is mind-boggling
but all the ecryptfs utilities are there, you can do what you like
cordoval_, i don't know what havlet is. never heard of that program, its not on my system anywhere
I had that problem, try typing unity into a term window
but brb lemme try this
jdahm, well wow... I think you may have a fairly rare card if its a tesla series card.. your bug report would be valuable
wow
oh, it seems to have continued now
Does iwconfig show a wifi interface?
sorry it is halevt
halevt
jdahm, oh so its not a tesla or at least it is one but has the chip for the gt 430
ecryptfs is not an authentication mechanism
halevt
sgaap, yay! :D Im in, thank you so amazingly much ;P
launchpad.net, do you see that pattern _at_ boot or does it change after a while, like when the login screen might have started being displayed
It can be.
cordoval_, hal i know what that is... not sure what evt is googling
yea, and when i scan i get 10+ SSID's but not my own
no, pam can mount it with your credentials; that is something else
it's _very_ blurry but yes i can see text in the screen
cordoval_, hal events manager
Would the 570 be tesla as well?
calibre keeps locking up in natty (using software center version)
sgaap, ch-something something mounting all partitions and installing grub that way worked like a charm =)
ok it's done installing now.  Now I have to deal with adding mdadm to the startup modules and then I should be OK.  I'll keep you posted on what happens after I restart
hmm, so it fails  loading usbs? let me try
good to hear
hey i just upgraded to ubuntu 11.04 stable, which seems to be working fine except the text in the top pane is barely visible
can I remove the 11.04 sidebar and have it look like the other releases?
I see.
it does load usbs
when you go to log in, choose "Ubuntu Classic" as your session
ok, then xserver-xorg-video-intel is what you probably want to file it against
 you can install one of the other desktops or just use classic
oic
wonder what other effects halevt would mess up
go to login screen -> look at bottom panel -> change "ubuntu" to "ubuntu classic" -> login -> done
btw i cant really use that site, i cant get online, eth doesnt work either
or how do I configure it properly or reinstall
because that will fix halevt
Anyone else have issues with upgrade process of downloading files taking FOREVER??
There is a wiki somewhere.
sgaap, make sur to go to sleep with a smile, u did someoone else really happy today =) now Im off, thnx again
Hey all. I have  a peculiar issue with my update-grub. It creates menu.lst files. Now, I'm on Grub 2, so it *should* be making grub.cfg files instead. Can anyone help me out?
jdahm, and you ahve raid.. damn what system do you have
should I do sudo apt-get halevt? and see?
nuts, already tried that; it still loads gnome.
you cant combine default language english and have location in scandinavia .... wtf ?
ohsix ecryptfs-setup-private comes with a -a -all-home flag which setups an encrypted home, which is what i wanted
how many thousands of people do you think are trying to download from the same servers as you?
yw
hypetech, jiohdi, thanks! The desktop users don't like change :P
hypershock where is he
0x1800003 (Bottom Exp) appears to be one of the offending windows with a timestamp of 167746096."
Dod you have "grub" isntead of grub-pc installed?
I assume it doesn't work.
a tutorial or article on how to do it will not tell you the implications of doing so
itll be slow for the next week
Be careful.
looking for a web designer
I went to fvwm-crystal
cordoval_, sounds like a plan, and avoid hot plugging during the install
#ubuntu is the Ubuntu support channel, for all Ubuntu-related support questions. Please use #ubuntu-offtopic for other topics (though our !guidelines apply there too). Thanks!
I believe so
Hey, is there an upgrade path from 10.04 to 11.04? Update-Manager is only showing 10.10 available.
That's what I figured
i hope you read about the implications before you lose everything in an overreach
ok
I am trying to upgrade from 10.10 to 11.04 but the update manager is pausing and then saying I need to check that I am connected to the internet. Is it possible to upgrade manually?
Please watch your language and topic to help keep this channel family-friendly, polite, and professional.
I had problems with this. encfs has a timeout
Then that is your problem.
it's _very_ blurry but yes i can see text in the screen
You have to update to 10.10 first
i saw that
best review how ecryptfs is setup on current ubuntu, the entire home is the default as of 9.10
the tesla series cards would start with a C for the model number. C2070, C2050 . Is your card a GeForce GTX/Fermi based card?
Really? blech. Okay, thanks.
then that is dumb
10.04 -> 10.10 -> 11.04
guntbert, help me instead of acting like a mom
if it times out while you're logged in, you start getting lots of "Transport endpoint not connected" errors.
sorry got disconnected. it's impossible to make out but when I ctl-alt-back i can see the colors reverting to a black screen and shutting donw
i dont see why that is dumb
it sayshlevt sub-processs post installation usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code 1
anyone know a channel i can talk to people about powersupplys?
bashelina, mind the attitude. people here are volunteers.
how can i disable the "maximize when bumping a window to the screen border"?
How do you change an icon on the unity panel?
LjL, so am I
be nice. please.
And it doesn't seem to remount on demand.
halevt 0.1.6.2-1.3
Disable Grid plugin in ccsm
ohsix ive been using ecryptfs without problems for years, i was just curious about how to enable it for a user that did not use ecryptfs before
Possibly waiting for input (which is impoossible since it won't have a controlling term)
where are you seeing that it's some default? you just said you need to pass --all-home to do it, what default is that?
are you talking about natty?
cordoval_, seems to be common and hal is deprecated so i doubt this is getting lots of attention. if you have any usb devices plugged in i would remove them
then you'll certainly see how there are 1800 users here today, everyone wants their question answered, and nobody wants to be subjected to stuff they don't want to see. as to your question, i haven't used Natty yet, but with previous versions i could certainly pick a different language than my locale.
default has a very narrow meaning with ubuntu
guntbert, yes
no usbs
for example, banshee is now a "default"
ok I will leave it there
thanks
now to work on the dead asus g73
then I cannot help, sorry (only 10.10 here)
guntbert, in previous version there was no problem having english and set locales to sweden
if you install ubuntu it will ask you if you want an ecrypted home, it uses ecryptfs to set that up and encrypts your entire home. ecrypfs-setup without the home flag defaults to the Private directory
it has no response, just manual restore console
thanks!
what do I do¡? I already backed up my data
what channel should i go to to ask about setting up my own irc server
Is Natty's Gnome in any way inferior to Maverick's Gnome?
okay guys should i update to 11.04 natty narwhal?
now if i only found how i can switch viewports while dragging windows...
#freenode
sure
oh, I see in the log. if you still have trouble with the card, let us know
ok, it did not ask me that for 10.10 or 11.04, and that is something the installer would do, not a "default"
thanks
should? If you're not using LTS versions, yes
you can pick btrfs in the installer as well, but that's not a "default"
i heard there was some thing where it messes everything up. is this only for elementary?
i feel like smacking a fist trugh my monitor... :(
but in my latest natty VM I had german locale and english language without any problem
Requested versions are not installed?
an idea, why don't you try simply removing the packages for the scandinavian language ubuntu wants to use?
there is probably a better way, mind.
hello guys, anyone could give me a hand with a problem with 11.04 live cd?
see toggle for encrypt my home directory
sure, ask it
i hope you have your machine under lock and key
been there since 9.10
LjL, how can I remove something ? im installing from a cd
where do I download natty img
url please
oh well install first, then worry about that later
I guess the servers are under heavy load right now, how about you wait a few days?
i'll take your word for it
open ubuntu software center -> installed apps -> remove
oh right, thank you
if you haven't installed yet, then i think you'll find that after installation is done, you will have no big trouble setting a language different from your locale
does Natty work with the proprietary ATI driver?
acicula, talk to arand or myself before going btrfs on /
ok, well i downloaded 11.04 and tested it in my dell inspiron studio 1558 and all good and great but when i use the keyring thing, to secure a password for the system the whole laptop crashes giving me a kernel panic and a stack dump with registers and stuff and given that it's a live cd there's no way to get a log
natty on asus g73 please help
LjL, ok ill try
i wasnt planning on switching
yes, though the offical ati drivers have been released by amd
thanks, that worked
it's important to segregate information that actually needs to be secure/encrypted, you are no better off encrypting everything without segregating things
hi..... i have a toshiba sattelite and i had to change the grub to make ubuntu work, will i have to do that again after upgrade... in need to do this acpi=copy_dsdt to install ubuntu
LjL, but then i cant choose the swedish keyboard mapping ... ???
okay, so it will work as good as it worked with Maverick. Good to know
Doesn't anybody know why Unity won't load on my new ubuntu 11.04 installation?!
sorry to both you ... where can i find a bug report for the i910 driver?
bother*
of course it's a cool thing to do; and people hear encryption and think its awesomr
i915?
well again i don't know, haven't used Natty... certainly the old installer inquired about the keyboard layout separately
Wow.  I'm going to stick with unity for a few days to see if it grows on me, but first impressions are god-awful.
typing unity in terminal gave no results?
so I burn the livecd and just wipe things out? should I burn then natty or mint?
my temperature applet on the gnome bar now show two "XX" instead of a temperature. What could be wrong?
I've got i915 problems.
is there anything one might consider before running Maverick->Natty?
BlouBlou any ideas?
never touch a running system
learn the keyboard shortcuts .. it helps alot. i hated it too. love unity now.
that the mirrors are probably slow right now, for one thing
backup?
i910
That it defaults to unity.
upstream is on freedesktop, but you want to report it on launchpad so someone can port a fix to a release
I'm trying to install Fedora on a flash drive in Ubuntu but the startup disk creator won't let me. how do?
yeah, that is what I am thinking about …
maybe i915
okay, I should have figured
maybe that'll help.  I hate that it steals the menu bar and puts it up top ala OSX
cordoval_, sure? whatever version you want to install the halevt was on 10.10?
it produced some sort of error.
my big trouble was migrating my compiz settings
hm, it seems the behaviour of the compiz window picker (scale module) changed, I can't close windows with middle mouse button anymore?
go to login screen -> look at bottom panel -> change "ubuntu" to "ubuntu classic" -> login -> done
backups are never a bad idea
well, without logs and exactly error I can't see what's the problem
why has installing gnome3 (on 11.04) given me a horrible theme?
estamp (4045470).  This most likely represents a buggy client sending inaccurate timestamps in messages such as _NET_ACTIVE_WINDOW.  Trying to work around...
is it possible to change the apt mirror that is being used by the natty installer?
0x1800003 (Bottom Exp) appears to be one of the offending windows with a timestamp of 167746096.  Working around...
halevt was in natty
 * Kyle__ nods
but isn't the "Gnome Classic" just the reguar Gnome I had in Maverick?
you may need to uninstall and then reinstall unity then
i use deja dup for all my backups. its in the software center
try using another kernel, do you have any older one?
I do them often, regulary and manifold :)
the action binds were pared down, just rebind the button in ccsm
A lost laptop could easily be an identity fraud bonanza without encrypted filesystems.
all i wanted to know was how to enable ecryptfs so ubuntu can mount it on login really
it's the LiveCD i havent even installed it yet
rats! halevt or whatever it was, itgave problems when upgrading from 10.10 to naty escott
what i915 problems do you have>
I know, but it's just weird that the theme for gnome-wm has been replaced
Yes, I'm just avoiding it for a few days to see if unity will grow on me ;)
www.ubuntu.com?
I'm trying to install Fedora on a flash drive in Ubuntu but the startup disk creator won't let me. how do?
But it seems solid so far (mind you I've been using it for all of 20 minutes now).
Unity is too much OSX-Clone for me :)
what about 'alternate CD'?
like a fungus it will
keepassX is good for encypted password storage
encryption doesn't solve you losing physical security of your encrypted information
err.. mac is too much linux clone
that is what backups are for
my temperature applet on the gnome bar now show two "XX" instead of a temperature. What could be wrong?
so I used raid to install and I'm all done.  I installed mdadm in the chroot.  Do I need to copy over the mdadm.conf file?
gnome comes with a keyring too
I'm trying to install Fedora on a flash drive in Ubuntu but the startup disk creator won't let me. how do?
Did you try it?
nay, if it was just that, it wouldn't need to be said
rats! get me the natty url, is the latest or the LTS?
MSG FloodBot3 hello
Fuck this shit. I've grown tired of this mess in Ubuntu. Sometimes random shit just breaks and I need to spend hours trying to figure out how to fix it. On more jolly occasions, such as this one, a new installation will have something broken de facto. FUCK YOU UBUNTU, I'm switching back to Windows, where I can actually get some work done.
hmm, I think Ubuntu had the maximize button on the right when OS X already had them on the left. I ever hated Ubuntu/Gnome for butting them on the left
maybe #ubuntu-bots ?
Please watch your language and topic to help keep this channel family-friendly, polite, and professional.
i havent tried that, i wanted to test this new version before deciding to install it, the alternate cd kind of defeats the idea of testing before installing i just wonder if the huge crash got something to do with my machine in specific or ubuntu? or if in the worse case scenario something is damaged in my laptop although all works fine under w7 sp1 64
so very true. but i need to use my passwords on osx and win machines too. so im forced to keepassX :-(
LTS or latest?
this will only work if the CD image has a special structure
in order to upgrade to 11.04 server do i just change the name from maverick to natty ?
in fact i'm quite insulted, but compiz changed versions and .9 doesn't read the old settings, and the thing that migrates some of the settings miss a _lot_ of them
sure, Windows works if you know how to work with it. Linux is only free, if your time has no value :)
for apt?
jdahm, you will need to have a valid mdadm.conf on the system, you could copy it or rebuild it post install, copying may be easier
no
lol @ switching back to windows to avoid problems. have fun installing two dozen drivers and redoing it at the first virus
yar i use keepass on my phone
guntbert ?
do you have a link that explains the instructions?
please keep it ontopic, the person has left anyway
i have write "unity" under termianl and hit enter it suddenly vanishes my max,miz button also the left pannel completely?why it is happening?
thanks
Is anyone else having problems with maximized windows being blank?
No, but it does make that information much more difficult to read.
I was so happy to get whiggly windows after 5 years … maybe I should not touch it then? :-/
Even if you don't encrypt swap.
is it all windows or just firefox, and are you using an nvidia card?
cordoval_, its up to you what version you want to run
well, I don't know then, I just can tell you than Unity doesn't work for me, and I'm using classic-desktop, so there is not big difference between 10.10 and 11.04 on my PC. Anyways, you may want to try Kubuntu, I think it uses the same kernel, but I'm not 100% sure
of course the latest!
rats!
how is 11.04
mictlantecuhtle, i use to get that with banshee
it usually only works with ubuntu (maybe debian) CD images, there must be a certain directory structure
what kind of question is that, leaving it up to me? I just want the latest
cordoval_, the halevt happened when you tried a fresh install of 10.10 during install, or post install during upgrade to natty?
#ubuntu-offtopic to talk about it :-)
thanks
all windows, they don't even have to be maximized, just stretched beyond a certain size, and yes I'm using an nvidia card
feelings are very mixed. but i think with time most people will enjoy the changes (aka unity)
it's not a blocker, but if you care that something was adjusted by .02 to suit your prefences, look forward to manually migrating your settings
guntbert it's the .iso i got from the fedora website. I want it on my flash drive so I can install it on this machine that dont have no cd drive
post install during upgrade to natty
Does the time&date applet use the ntpserver listed in /etc/default/ntpdate?
rats!
is it possible to change the apt mirror that is being used by the natty installer?
looks like it already created one for me
is it a geforce mx or some similar older card?
I linked to the release notes earlier, but it appears to point to the wrong bug (unless I've missed something)
so I will burn the livecd and don't have those problems i hope
cordoval_, i would wait a few days until things settle down and try again
the exact values are not that difficult, I'd just retweak them.
what to burn the livecd?
is there anyway to speed up the download to upgrade from alpha to final?
cordoval_, unless you enjoy installing
I will burn the 64 bit right now, can't wait then I assume it will upgrade
thank you so much.
yes, and fedora CDs might have a different structure of directories, so creating a usb-drive with startup-creator won#t work
k3b or brasero should do the trick
ok rebooting.  Wish me luck!
rats! I need to get work going
rats! and cats!
you're welcome :-)
guntbert then how do
assume a well equipped adversary, you say "more difficult", how much more" part of even bothering is quantifying the risk; use of such language probably betrays that you don't care or don't take it very seriously
find a closer/faster mirror
guntbert then how do i do it
I don't know how to do that
if you have been regularly updating and upgrading till now you have just about the whole new set up
well, try with unetbootin
sigh i guess i'll need to wait another 6 months till they release 11.11 sad past ubuntu's were way better
anyways thanks to all for the help
I haven't used it in over a month
ok, your old settings are preserved in gconf; so if you do need to, you can, you may not have to; i just had quite a bit of daily tweaks in mine
OK, if one is to use unity, how do you go about adding and removing programs from that silly bar?
yes, it's an older nvidia card, GeForce 6200 LE
then wait a couple of days and do an update/upgrade and you will have it
how to use nity?
Hello people. I just ran the upgrade to 11.04 from 10.10. First thing I'm noticing is that X just froze. I'm not sure how to resolve it. Is this a common issue?
How do I move the bar?
Kyle__, start the program then right click on it and pin it
how to use unity?
looks like those ubuntu servers are getting a little beat up right now
I tried changing sources.list in tty1 after booting the ISO, then firing the install, but no luck. still the default repository mirror
I'm chatting from console now with irssi
I'll upgrade my sidekick computer to give it a test
the unity sidebar? you can't
how do i chose a faster closer mirror?
What!
OK. Not very elegant, but I'll do it for now :)
Thanks.
I pray that my ISP has a mirror :)
RAMPKORv:how to chat via termianl?
OK; there are texture size limits on some older cards, it might not work well & the only solution that might be offered is blacklisting it due to the limitation, do you know if you are using the proprietary driver?
i'm getting 40K/s ;)
go to GDM (login-menu) and select ubuntu-session, normal-session or unity-session
How am I suppsed to use it with synergy and such then?
how about you wait a day or two?
I'll race ya :D
I mean, I run irssi as my IRC client, as X doesn't seem to work
if you would excuse me I need my BW
ok
pick a mirror in software properties; it will measure the speed of all of them :]
bye bye
Is ther a way to parallel download? some files from one mirror, some from another?
go to synaptic -> settings -> repositories. Select "Other" from the dropdown, then press "select best source"
I have only ran the upgrade to 11.04 and now X doesn't work
torrent?
BlouBlou:thanks
24.3kB/s
RAMPKORv:ok thanks
thanks
awesome... feel like i'm on v.90
oh wait you want to upgrade... then forget metalink
do something about it
If nobody has any idea - how do I kill X so I can reinstall my NVIDIA driver - because it's still running, just not working
heh. it's ok. i'm in no big rush. ;) i have to wait for a lot of stuff to finish anyways
It's kind of weird, the nl.archive.ubuntu.com allows about 100 kB/s, while nl3.arhive.ubuntu.com allows 6 MB/s, but stupid installer doesn't allow to change the mirror
how do i update ubuntu via update manager?
sudo servide gdm (or kdm) stop
Thanks
i want the new 11.04 software
sudo service stop gdm3
is there any way I can use Unity in 2D if I don't have proper hardware acceleration ?
it seems that setup-encryptfs-private with the home flag or ecrypfs-home-migrate will setup the encrypted home directory
*"service" of course
software properties? in apt?
it has no intelligence
RAMPKORV,  > sudo pkill X
:)
how to configure effects related to unity?
scroll up and see what m4rtin said
ccsm
does anybody here has good how to impgproxy to set up?
maco:ccsm?
i'm using ubuntu server
!upgrade
the compiz config settings manager. unity is a compiz plugin and so is in there
I believe I'm using the proprietary driver. When I installed Maverick it gave me the option to install those drivers, I think. Everything was working fine until I upgraded to Natty.
ok I get a grub error 16
grrr
should be able to alt+f2 "ccsm"
can somebody help me?
guntbert I downloaded netbootin from their site it's not running
 iwant the new version of ubuntu
I want to move back to 10.10
ah theres a text based thing that does the same but i think it's been removed; you can manually change your sources.list to a closer mirror though
download links are on ubuntu.com
I remember the debian installer had that feature ages ago, to select mirror during the install process
maco
download links for old releases are on cdimage.ubuntu.com
you can not downgrade unfortunately, only reinstall
i want to do it via update manager
or use update manager as normal
i honestly think on release day i would be hard pressed to find one that wasn't slow
aah
shit
jdahm, grub should be configured to point at sda1 not md1, and should boot degraded then once the kernel is up and md modules loaded it should bring up sdb1
watch the language
but it wont appear in update manager?
sorry
if all it is is that you dont like unity, you can use classic ubuntu
there's an option on the login screen
ooh k
guntbert I downloaded netbootin from their site it's not running
also why do you want to move back geert__ KYOGI?
but thank you for the help. i will just wait it out.. i don't want to use the one broken mirror.
if you're on 10.10 it should. if its not showing, click hte check for new updates button
jdahm, you were doing raid1 right?
you might need to reinstall the proprietary driver; it's likely using nouveau, if it is you should probably report a bug about it, b ut the proprietary driver might suffice for  now
it points to /dev/sda on which /dev/sda1 (/boot) is, which is not part of the raid array
I DID MACO
I have boot on a separate partition
sorry
thanks for your help launching ccsm. Reverted to Ubuntu classic
so what does ubuntu mean in nigger again I forgot ?
i just updated and the mirror i use wasn't any slower than normal
jdahm, thats the way i've always done it. should be fine
I did, and all I have our three updates.
also I find too much of processes in idle state
But none are the new version.
it doesnt show "hey there's a new release" at the top, above where it lists the normal updates?
lots of CPU utilization
why does Processes in System Monitor always show everything as 'sleeping'?
ok so I'm mounting stuff here again and I'm going to look around
hopefully with your help I can find whats wrong
because processes don't often have a lot to do.
Or you can alway reinstall 10.10. There's no need to hurry to 11.04, unless it has a solution for some citical issues you have.
hello
nm
nope maco
because software often has nothing to do! or is waiting for something it needs
its like those things that sit in a windows taskbar... stay resident but are not active at the moment
Sexygurl2furl, do the 3 new updates. After that, it should show the new distro.
how does one change settings in unity
ok, I will try that. I'll stop bothering you for the moment, but I just want to say I appreciate your taking the time to help me out
the title bar text is black, and the panel is also black
347 kB/s ;-)
has anyone had problems updating to 11.04 with the repo?
compiz config settings manager, aka "ccsm"
because you won't notice the nano-second the process is doing its work, and then put again to sleep by the scheduler :-)
347 kB/s
marco oh okay
hello there
please report a bug if you've found one with the nouveau driver :]
kees saying i have no internet connection
like slowness? thatd be due to everyone trying at once
wtf I can't find anything with the unity ui
 how r u/
but nice job
could try another mirror if youre having trouble reaching your usual one
ayecee,  but on my windows taskbar it always show a whole bunch of stuff active
fine I guess
it's a plugin for compiz
thanks talntid
maco yeah, i just wanted to update from the repo
is there a way to force ubuntu to load its GUI?
I'm using raid5 for both / and /home (different arrays)
it always just traps me in a terminal
how can you change the repo?
So I was wondering can any1 help me with gwibber?
like what?
there are a lot of repo mirrors. in the software sources thing, you can ask it to search for the fastest one, then use that
im downloading the iso now
POOPHAMMER,  you have no desktop environment?
so it installed firefox 4. I don't see the firefox menu button. how do I make it appear?
i used to
until it stopped loading
jdahm, that should be fine as long as the md stuff is in the initrd
if it's not starting on its own what are you going to force it to do?
thanks
i have no idea
POOPHAMMER,   ok,,, do you have a cursor and wallpaper?
maco i will take a look
guntbert I downloaded netbootin from their site it's not running
no im in a terminal using IRSSI
yeah I'm confused to.. It's all mounted now.  Where is the first place to look?
it just says welcome to ubuntu 10.10 tty sp,ething like that
POOPHAMMER, ok in  the text console there  ,, you have already logged in ..yes?
ayecee a whole bunch of .exe things and other things i cant recall. usually it shows at least 30 - 40 things active
i used to have the ubuntu desktop enviroment
Do you actually want me to calculate the statistics?
then one day it just stopped working
whats a resonable size for / partition, if you have /home set to the reminder of the disk ???
startx
POOPHAMMER,   ok  in that text console    type   sudo restart gdm
jdahm, ever taken apart an initrd before?
It doesn't look like I'm getting any acceleration.
huh. well, most processes spend most of their time sleeping. I think you may have just misinterpreted what windows presented.
you're the one thats quantified your risk ... it's part of the job, yes
I think X is using the wrong driver.
no, maybe I need to rebuild one...
on ubuntu 11.04 running on live CD we don't have Unity desktop ??? only GNOME ?
guys, I'm upgrading my ubuntu to 11.04 and it's asking the keyboard model
how do I discover that?
it means the keyboard layout
I come from archlinux, but I haven't ever dealt with initrds,  tried to always build my own kernels without them
it just wants to know if youre using a US-style keyboard, german, british, etc.
what is your plan for rubber hose token disclosure?
jdahm, if you want you could do that. copy the initrd off and gunzip it. then mount it loopback as ext2
try the default
it wants to know if it is dell, mac, vaio, etc
rubber hose key discovery is a purely ubuntu-offtopic thing
crazy stuff
unity requires working 3d acceleration
you can "lose" a laptop and lose a laptop as well
ayecee, but i'm using xchat right now so why does processes say xchat is sleeping too?
when in doubt use the default one
Why is unity so poorly configurable?
neither of those commands did anythin
g
thanks
jdahm, you will see a base prelim filesystem in it. it needs your mdadm.conf and the mdadm kernel modules
the whole discussion is, i just said it was bad advice
How does anybody get any help in this IRC? I haven't gotten an actual answer to any of my problems since Karmic was released
it should have at least shown the grub screen and the boot options if it sensed /dev/sda1 the boot partiiton
because it spends most of its time waiting for your input, or waiting for traffic from the network.
can I downgrade to 10.10 without loosing my data?
ill bbl im just going to load windows
I think ti's something more fundamental than that
well, it certainly doesn't help that it's release day.
:s
because options confuse users, according to the koolaid gnome & canonical both drank
I don't think you can downgrade
jdahm, you think grub-install didn't work?
whining helps alot
because it hardly does anything? as a compiz plugin you can adjust its settings inccsm
downgrading is not supported, no
W43372,  whats the question ?
well it HAS grub, and /dev/sda1 is definitely bootable...
I'm still thinkin what it could be
neryour data is in /home, possibly /etc; if you don't do anything to delete or modify those places you won't lose it
jdahm, try rerunning grub-install from a chroot environment
ayecee, well when i'm on windows and i'm using mirc it always shows mirc.exe as active
Well, one basic option should be switching where the sidebar is.
jdahm, you will need to bind mount /dev to your chroot
I think you may be misinterpreting what windows is showing you.
yeah, and sys and proc and so forth
hey guys
bashelina, I'm trying to put fedora on a flash drive, but couldn't on the startup disk creator, someone told me to use netbootin. I downloaded it from the website but it won't run
I'm used to doing this ;)
Rubber what?
should i iupgrade to 10.10
??
hi! Installed natty beta2 a week ago. Now that the official release is out, do I have to reinstall again?
linux is not comparable to windows; and yea what ayecee said
installer of Linux/BSD distributions to a partition or USB drive. In component universe, is optional. Version 471-2ubuntu1 (natty), package size 276 kB, installed size 820 kB
do an apt-get upgrade, should be all up to par
jdahm, had the feeling you had done this before
guys should i upgrade to 10.10
????
which is plain wrong.... most o fthe time the appplication is idling (sleeping) waiting for input
W43372,  whats the filesystem on the flash drive ?
MEh. The NVIDIA driver doesn't even install on Ubuntu 11. Nothing seems to work except console
Trying to understand "df -h" compared to what I see in "computer" in nautilus. I have 3 drives, 1T main drive booted up on-SATA also with 31G Windows partition., 2 IDE drives 10G 20G. GUI shows this. Can only see the subparts of 1T filesystem in df --- thanks
I will probably end up rreformatting and install 10.10
lucas i believe you can do it through update-manager -d
bad advice to do what?
no dist-upgrade necessary?
RAMPKORV, they told me not to install 10.10 last night, to stick with 10.04
bashelina not sure
oic
ayecee, ok i guess i am, but if i remember correct, on the windows side, its also called 'processes' so thats confusing
how did you install it? it should be using nouveau on 11.04
is anyone else having trouble running 11.04 in virtual box?
you already did the dist-upgrade, if you do a regular apt-get upgrade, you'll just sync up the packages that were finalized between when you installed the alpha, and now, the official release
Well if they've got my laptop they probably don't know who I am.
delete your xorg.conf and restart
unless you specifically need something in 10.10, it can't hurt to stick with the LTS version
yea, I had big trouble with the upgrade to 10.10 too. No X and no audio
take another look at it when you get a chance, it may make more sense now.
where is it located
Until they've broken the cryptography.
bashelina its the same flashdrive  i used to put ubuntu on thisnetbok
ayecee ok i will
but what if they do; you after all have very important data that a known adversary desires access to
stored in reserved extra space is set to something. like 128 or something
hey guys is Ubuntu 11 good or not?
ive been happy with 10.04 for 18 months and i cant wait to move to 11.04
just a quick on. In the screenshot on the ubuntu homepage the dash is resized to quarter of the screen. On my new install it takes up the whole thing and no option to resize. Am I running a strange version of unity?
that's subjective.
I like it
s/18/12.
/etc/X11/xorg.conf
thanks
dont have any windows open over it?
W43372,   i tried to create without changing it from 0.0 Mb
I never said anything about a known adversary.
ayecee, but at least now i know nothings wrong with my system so thanks for the info
no windows open
bashelina what?
whats new in Ubuntu 11?
hi guys, I've got kubuntu (natty) installed, was wondering what the package is called for unity, is it just ubuntu-desktop?
to suggest encrypting everything
when you open a window does it look more like the screenshot?
nope, full screen still
  u have a bar
ooh oh i see what you mean
Alright. Renamed it to xorg.conf.old. Now it's reboot time
then what information do you have to protect? a casual thief is a known adversary, maybe not who that person is, but an adversary
W43372, try increasing that bar
it's a compiz plugin
i thought you meant the little bar versus the whole thing.... i guess they resized it? alt+right-click  and drag?
yeah but the SDC won't even recognize the fedora iso
you know what I think it might be. I didn't have /dev/sda1 mounted to /mydrive/boot when I chrooted and installed mdadm
I'll redo grub anyway as well
bashelina yeah but the SDC won't even recognize the fedora iso
W43372, maybe fedora needs more space for extra files
I moved back to ubuntu classic
geekyogi,  me too
:)
I'm using i7 processor
W43372, ok wait ill try to put fedora in
bashelina the fedora site says that i need at least a 1gb stick this one is 8
geekyogi, me too lol
nothing seems to happen. It's the actual dash window (think it's called the dash). The bit which opens when you press super
I kinda feel huge CPU utilization
"battery has a very low capacity". It keeps always popping up. How can I disable it?
@pumeust \m/
with infinite time and effort your adversary will get what you want to protect; and has lots of ways to lessen that time, you need to account for the risk with the information
Shall we take this into #ubuntu-offtopic?
replace the battery :)
RAMPKORV, Arg! Eek!... I need to figure out how to repartition my drive. I really just need to borrow another drive. Switch, repartion, switch back. Then I can intall Natty on a separate partition.  -- I'm also failing at copying files from one filesystem to another. I dont have permissions on the other - no matter which filesystem I log into.
W43372,  wow youre right it wont accept it
zing! i was thinking it, but you typed it.
so is 11 giving people problems LjL??
yes
Me too. Battery's dying.
@pumeust, don't you find 11.04 bit slow, and CPU hog..
why?
because that's normal for every new release, really
LOL.... ;) Just looked for a cheaper solution...
It really blows, but that's the trth
W43372,  lets find another usb creator for linux
hypetech, er, really? thought it was a gnome replacement?
is it in beta?
you there?
just look at the amount of traffic in this channel. it's not always like this.
set root='(/dev/sda,msdos1)'
you can also remove the battery. I'm not sure offhand how to disable just that message, though.
no, it's released, but that doesn't stop it from still being rough around the edge for a few people.
no it runs on top of gnome
the bad advice was given here; the reasons why its bad should probably be elaborated a little in here; but that's been done
geekyogi, i just installed it not long ago, havent noticed that its slower
But the adversary does not have infinite time, because in a few years the information will be worthless.
anything else you can think of?
Amazing. It worked. Just have to fix multiple monitors, then get on to whatever other problems there may be
bashelina i found the source for the one fedora says to use but I idont know what to do with it
on i7 processor I find lots of CPU hog for 11.04
jdahm, shouldn't that be sda3 or 5 or something
i am bout to install 11.04, I have 4 Partitions on my previous 10.10 install ine ext 10gb for system ans the rest for home folders, if i chose the erase 10.10 and install 11.04 will it erase my home partition to?
When I am on filesystem A I cant copy files from filesystem B (no permissions). When I boot into filesystem B I cant even SEE filesystem A. 10.04
Err, is the ubuntu software center very laggy for anyone else since the 11.04 update?
I know first hand why it's bad. For various reasons.
I think I should get back to 10.10
hypetech, heh, makes more sense, it's been somewhat misreported in the media
is there a way to use an Ubuntu live disk to find the Windows license#? I have a nonfunctional copy of windows that I need to get the key from so I can reinstall it (the only key I can find is the vista key on the bottom of hte laptop, this is a win7 I upgraded and lsot the key)
sorry i meant to say 2 partitions
Hello, I have installed Ubuntu, but a drive with 48 GB space is empty, how to create a partition with that space?
The Ubuntu repositories and ISO mirrors are currently under heavy load. Please consider using !torrents to download ISO images, and be patient with APT updates.  Also, try changing !mirrors
geekyogi, surprised to hear that because i read 11.04 was going to be lighter
jdahm, i lied thats right
no, as long as /dev/sda1 is bootable, you should ALWAYS install grub to the root of the drive, (at least thats what I've always beentold)
Kyle__, is the bear in the woods? Is the Pope in the church?
well, popping out the battery is not a good idea I think. After all I have just enough charge left to do a normal shutdown in an event of a power failure
just doubled checked and /dev/sda1 is bootable
"a few years" is a contraint on the information you want to protect, and as i've said that's just the principle axiom; they can and do have means to take less than infinite time
hypetech, yeah I see it depends on compiz
a lot of users are upgrading apps. expect software center to be a bit slow.
pumeust, yes.. but I guess not well tested on my hw.. it's just few hrs old.. would take some time to evolve :D
i do suggest that you move this to #ubuntu-offtopic at this time
I'm going to triple check the UUIDs in /etc/fstab as well
"I was able to fix this by opening gconf-editor, and setting the key /apps/gnome-power-manager/notify/low_capacity to false."
another case i've personally accounted for is for family to have access to most of my information in the even that i disappear
bashelina I'm downloading Unetbootin from the USC
I don't care about the time to download and install, it's that _after_ the page is loaded, it's periodically freezing for a second or two, when scrolling around, then behaves fine.
W43372,  what OS are you on ?
i don't know then
wants to continue we can do it in msg :]
how can you set you package manager to download from the fastest servers?
 * Kyle__ nods
Today of all days, I expect slow downloads.
Does anyone know why the ubuntu theme engine crashes whenever gnome OR unity runs in virtualbox?
Do you have 3d enabled, or the ubuntu virtualbox drivers installed?
it'd be a virtualbox problem with the gpu emulation most likely, no?
Unless "they" have developed an efficient interger factorisation algorithm, "they" will not be able to decrypt the information within its valuable lifespan.
if i have a home partition and a system partition what would be the best intsall option not to delete my stuff on 11.04
Kyle__, it happens regardless of whether I have 3d enabled, and it even happens when I go into gnome classic
Or unless "they" are prepared to come and beat me with a rubber hose for it.
gnome-classic in 11?  I think that's still compiz
nothing in your /home should be deleted during an upgrade
Kyle__ not if you select (no effects)
you need virtualbox 4.0.6 and the 4.0.6 guest-tools installed. Nattys xserver is pickky...
you are making a facile argument against "encryption", not against how people will acquire your information regardless of whether encryption is employed or not
please, #ubuntu-offtopic
stefg I have 4.0.6 and 4.0.6 guest additions
OK.  Well, try and install the virtualbox guest extensions for ubuntu.  See if it helps.
message me if you wish to continue
Kyle__ i did install them
hmmm ... works for me
ok those look correct as well
Tried the solution. Logged out and in again, and it still there... I guess I have to buy a new one ;)
guys can any1 help me with gwibber?
yes
W43372,  are you on Windows, fedora or Ubuntu ??????????????
you are behind a proxy ?
That's odd then.  I've used ubuntu 9, 10, and 11 (the beta at least) in virtualbox and not had that issue.
if guys knew what you wanted help with
Bashelina Ubuntu Maverick
Bashelina I'm in the ubuntu IRC aren't i?
Kyle__ quite frankly, I have never personally gotten ubuntu to run reliably in virtualbox
mmiller235:Vbox's 3d acceleration might have trouble with your hosts graphics driver. what videocard/driver do you use?
sure the whole country is behind a proxy:D
Yes you are
hello
stefg it happens even when I am not using 3d acceleration and even when the effects are turned off
i haven't had much luck with anything in vbox D:
oho . where do you live ? in china ? x)
I have the natty desktop
I am? Really!?!
Virtualbox all on the same system that's giving you trouble now?
but when I click on the clock, then setting time and date
W43372,  here you the fedora usb creator in source
no window appears
would the best way to upgrade to Natty from 10.10 is by booting into installer ?
 that would have been lovely:D i liv in lebanon we have few IPs here:D
so running classic/ 2d still gives you crashes?
Wow, the new upgrade is taking forever to download...
virtualbox is great if you don't mind broken 3D most of the time
upgrading can be done using the update-manager
and I have no idea on how can I solve my problem
ok rebooting
stefg yeah, the ubuntu theme engine crashes and it falls back on this gray ugly theme
bad luck . Gwibber doesn't work behind a proxy
pick a faster mirror in software properties
(and tons of issues with usb)
booting the installer from usb/cd will make it (re)install rather then update i should think
:)
ye, but i've already downloaded the iso to install on another comp.. so can I reuse that? cause my nets not too fast.
my irc client is getting slightly better
and that's very annonyng for me too
any idea on how can I solve my problem ?
annoyin'*
seems very trivial
<3
eh yeah you can add the cdrom as a source in software sources, dunno if thats enough to let you upgrade though
but I need the seconds on my clock !!!!
let me try what happens i i disable 3d for the natty guest...
disconnected from Plymouth error on a headless box
what is the problem you're having? I think it's scrolled past already.
stefg as I said, it appears to be independent of anything related to 3d
is it possible to get rid of the 'apps available for download' items in the unity apps menu?
hello!
my problem is
disabled kms? or no video
I click on the clock
totally headless
then I click on Set time and date
could you put the problem on one line, so the first half doesn't scroll off before you're done?
right, but is it totally devoid of video hardware
yup
I do my best
its installed thru vbox
you can ignore it then, unless it's preventing mountall from working, then report a bug
?
after install ubuntu 11.04 i have problem with 2 partitions..   have any idea how to solve it? i have important files
after i upgrade to 10.10
ya thats fine but it doesnt take me to a login
are my third party repos killed?
Define the problem.
or disabled?
ok, I click on the clock, then I click on Set time and date. The problem is that no window appears after that, nothing asking to unlock, nada. And I have no idea on how can I solve the problem
just upgraded to natty and love it!
using natty, or a different version?
Why was the option to use custom applications as the default web browser removed in Preferred Apps?
natty
(just have upgraded)
I can't use Chromium as the default browser any more unless I remove Firefox.
okay, I don't know then. They seem to be using a different clock applet now.
i have 2 partiotions and i cant mount them
I'm on Natty
What does it say when you try?  What are the filesystems on them?
very strange ayecee
after i upgrade are my third party repos disabled??
cos I exactly followed what they say in the help
no
the bar isn't anything like the old panel; you're right, but they aren't applets
ok
 one is btrfs and the other is ext4
Boy those servers are getting hammered today.
Are you about to pull the triger on 11.04 ?
check some close by mirrors
Did you first check /proc/filesystems to make sure btrfs is listed (or modprobe btrfs to include the module)?
usr13, I am about to upgrade to 10.10
:X
I'm going to use an old harddrive of mine specifically as an Ubuntu repository and seed them when I can
10.10 is boss, good luck!
oh, ok.  So you are on 10.04 now?
ayecee, when I go to the right top corner, I click on System settings, I choose "time and date" nothing appears. The cursor says it opens but after, no window, nothing
I grabbed an iso this afternoon and just upgraded my system tonight, both downloads were really fast
so the problem comes from my system
usr13, I think so
:X
 sorry i don't understand
stefg
10.10 is history
Hi everyone!
I don't know.
(Mine is 10.04)
I have nothing to add, I have not used natty.
and sticking with it.
does any one know anything about knockd and ufw for multiple services?
who is the ubuntu spanish channel? ubuntu-es ?
go to System > About ubuntu for information on the version
how do i know which version i am on?
why usr13? :o
!es
En la mayoría de canales de Ubuntu se habla sólo en inglés. Si busca ayuda en español o charlar entra en el canal #ubuntu-es. Escribe "/join #ubuntu-es" (sin comillas) y dale a enter.
does anyone know how I would get my music from my iPhone onto the natty installation?
if you want to pastebin something
ok, I was just giving some feedback after trying another solution
NNNNNNNNOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
OK.  What does it say when you try and mout your ext4 partition then?
Sorry, could somebody help me?
you guys took me #ubuntu+1 :(
thnaks
do apt-get update again
#ubuntu-es
LTS
nothing but doen't open
just tested natty  in 2d... switched through some themes and resized the desktop... no crashes.
LTS is happiness
BUGabundo, it'll be back in a week or two
could you describe the problem? It's long since scrolled off.
nothing but doen't open
Guest78840,  what so u need help with ?
stefg okay, well, clearly something is different about your system
LTS usr123?
I clicked "forward" in the "preparing to install ubuntu" screen and it's been just "thinking" for 5 minutes. Should I reboot?
what about when you try it from the command line?
ok still the same error
grr!
stefg you are on virtualbox right?
My system freezes ever since I open deluge or other bit torrent..
one week without my friends :/
Hi all, any real drawbacks to upgrade to 11.04 instead of fresh install?
now I'm sure that it's with grub
Guest78840,  what are your sys specks
I just updated to Natty. My main user still runs Firefox 3.6. But, I created a new user and that user runs FF 4. How do I get my primary user to run FF 4 instead of 3.6?
greetings from captain obvious :-) the art is finding out what it is :-\
can anyone help me with ufw rules please?
its a gamble, many have no problems at all
jdahm, unfortunately there are like NO DOCS for grub2 so i dont know what error 16 is
anyone had any trouble with wired networking since updating to natty ?
does anyone know how I would get my music from my iPhone in Linux? :S
Sys specks? I don't understand sorry.
it almost looks like grub1 is loading
What an ugly UI!! Natty, my foot. /me uses the "classic" option at login.
not grub2
 i didn't try from command line from nautilus
stefg well how do we find out what it is?
jdahm, really how can you tell?
thats what makes me kinda confused
Thanks ... might aswell try and see how it goes :)
that runs for a bit, then hangs, then gives me the same error
Try from the command line, it will probably tell you what's wrong
hmmm -goes and googles it a lil more-
it has a larger font and no background behind grub
sorry I gotta go
Guest78840,  what are System Specifications"
on the plus side you do not have to hunt down all the programs you already have
the remote application did not send a reply, the message bus security policy blocked the reply, the reply timeout expired, or the network connection was broken.
at least when I upgraded to grub2 on my arch box I saw that change
64 Bit
Is that it?
@mknarr thanks, but I have a rather more complicated setup, multiple daemons  multiple ports with different publishing rules required
LTS usr13?
jdahm, does it show menu and do the stage 1.0 1.5 nonsense, cause they got right of that with grub2
@mknarr just need a nudge
i run 10.04/nvidia as host and an updated natty beta one isntall as guest.
is it out?
what are you trying to do?
how long dose the upgrade take ?
yes
typhoon, srry im only a basic user of that firewall
maco, theres no more bots?
stefg I have OSX as host
About 2 hours or more.
yes! and have to reinstall all the dev tool :) ... Well upgrading now .. fingers crossed ;)
jdahm, the font size can vary in grub2 depending upon config, but you are actually getting to a menu?
it doesn't show anything, just says grub and then error 16"
Guest78840, since u r running 64 bit i take it u have 4gb+ ram  and a duel core processor +
today is not necessarily the best day for that though
Yes
after install ubuntu 11.04 i have problem with 2 partitions..   have any idea how to solve it? i have important files
jdahm, do you think you might have a grub1 install on sdb's mbr?
4GB DDR3
hey guys what is LTS?
And it is a I3
hello is upgrade functional
long term support
can I clear out the MBR of other drives?
somebody can help?
thanos, what happened
just to be sure?
Guest78840, dose your computer freeze  if you open anything else?
Long Term Support
ratcheer can i do other thing wile it is upgrade ing ?
Nop.
do you know the command for that?
jdahm, sure do grub-install on all the mbrs
i keep getting error when i click upgrade
Sexygurl2furl, long term support
We're not Nostradamus.  Define "problem".
Only with bit torrent programs for now.
You are not supposed to.
ah
escott, i cant mount 2 partitions
@acicula I need ssh, ssl email ports and smtp, and web 80 available to internet + internal lan. I also need mysql ports only available on internal
I've tried out Deluge, Transmission, Ktorrent..
Long-Term Support
dosnt LTS mean long term support?
of curse
thanos, can't mount from livecd
i'd go to the VBox Forums. i could imagine that an OSX host has a completl different set of problems than a linux or windows host
ratcheer thanks i will be back then
UbuN2, disable your wireless then try it with your lan cable hooked up to your machine
it means that that distro will be supported for like 3-5 years for updates and upgrades
no doesnt open
What version of Ubuntu do you have?
Whate filesystem are they?
ok tucemiux
btrfs and ext4
If you use crypto and lvm you may not be able to see the password dialog for the encrypted volume upon boot (just see a flashing cursor nothing else after grub).  If you boot into safe mode and install the graphics drivers it seems to fix the issue.  In case anyone else is having the same issue.
Guest78840, hmmm
I just updated to Natty. My main user still runs Firefox 3.6. But, I created a new user and that user runs FF 4. How do I get my primary user to run FF 4 instead of 3.6?
how u know i had wireless
more for the business users so that they can be sure that what they have can stay the same for that long
lol
thanos, the live cd might not like your btrfs if it is a few versions behind in kernel from your last booted kernel, but ext4 shouldn't be a problem
I wonder what the thought was about putting a tablet/netbook gui in a desktop os
have you tried to locate and download a prebuilt guest?
so which distro
is the best?
@acicula I'm being a noob. I just open the lot don't I and NAT the rest through my router...
it's an 11.04 install, though like I mentioned earlier the installer crashed towards the end, but it left me with an almost complete install - I'm trying to see if I can fill in the holes
stefg what is that?
which ever one is labeled as LTS
i dont know what happent
sudo mkdir /mnt/ext4; sudo mount /dev/sda? /mnt/ext4;
depends on your machine and your needs
LTS means Long Term Support. LTS versions of Ubuntu will be supported for 3 years on the desktop, and 5 years on the server. The current LTS version of Ubuntu is !Lucid (Lucid Lynx 10.04)
jiohdi, i have a home computer
Guest78840, srry man i cant think y it would cause your comp to freeze
what do you use it for?
Hey, if you had ubuntu 11.04 beta, do you have to do any upgrades for the official release of ubuntu 11.04?
running runescape bots playing minecraft torrenting and using jd downloader
i also irc a lot
Hum. Thanks anyway! I'll keep searching.
It is weird because in 10.10 it caused me no trouble,
the remote application did not send a reply, the message bus security policy blocked the reply, the reply timeout expired, or the network connection was broken.
Guest78840, GL
so heres something.  When I do "apt-get install grub2" it wants to remove some grub packages and install "grub2"
No, just update aptitude and safe-upgrade
jiohdi, ^
as long as whatever you are looking at can run those things you are golden
are you sure it by default has grub2??
If you have all the latest updates you already have the final release
so i shouldnt upgrade?
:X
jdahm, the old grub is now called grub-pc or grub-legacy
if you are not sure and what you have now works... give it a couple of months to let them get the bugs out
ok I have grub-install (GRUB) 1.99~rc1-13ubuntu3
ah
guys, anybody heard anything bad/good about hopone.net DC?
Okay, thanks. Is there a way to check for a "beta" label in the OS somewhere to see if I'm still marked as beta?
jdahm, ie grub2
the remote application did not send a reply, the message bus security policy blocked the reply, the reply timeout expired, or the network connection was broken.
yep.  Ok back to debugging this.  everything is mounted and I'm chroot'd
It's kind of like the difference between bleeding edge and cutting edge.
witch version do you run
i dont know
how do i check
??
lsb_release -a
in terminal   lsb_release -a
apt-get update is still giving me the error
sudo mkdir /mnt/ext4; sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt/ext4;
hi, how can I change my username on natty?
As I said, get all the latest updates and you are no longer beta. I'm personally using a beta install CD for my 10.10 and just update the stuff to the actual version. That's all.
thanos, adjust sda1 if the name is something else
Guest78840, here man check out this link
the login or the long name?
Did you try what was described in the above article?
zatan, ehhh usually just create a new user with the desired name and move files
is there a way to reset all gnome settings? I accidently did something wrong (disabled too many compiz effects) and now unity wont start
zatan, you could try just renaming your $HOME after creating a user but it could get messy
escott, sudo mkdir /mnt/ext4 i do only this and appears this in a window
ohsix,  antanas@ubu I need to change "antanas"
the user editor lets you change the long name; changing your usernameis harder but not impossible, you move your home dir to the new name, change passwd, shadow, group; then use find to find files owned by the old uid and set them to the new one
Hello all :)
mello,   well if it was compiz that made this happen  open ccsm  go to Preferences and  hit the "Reset to defaults"  button
yes, after moving around the status files apt-get update is still giving me the error
coz_ unity won't start.
you can also add the new name with useradd & leave the home d ir as is, then change permissions
there are lots of ways to do it
try changing your session to gnome and setting the defaults in ccsm from there
__init__() got an unexpected keyword argument 'datadir'
thanos, why are you sending me fdisk output?
mello,   oh!!
quit
Hey nvidia error, got myself a load of those too
mello,   are you in classic gnome desktop?
thanks
header"" [Undecided,Confirmed]
coz_ no xfce. I installed both xfce and gnome shell
did you find a work arround mate?
how can in install 11.04 onto a linux software raid?
mello,  maybe you disabled the  ubuntu unity plugin in ccsm ??
ohsix,  ok I will try to add new user , and change home dir permissions
its a brand new install
coz_ yes probably. compositing didn't work with my graphics driver (ATI), so i accidently disabled it
mello,  oh!!!!  gnome shell??
it might be a great idea to back things up until you are sureyou got it right
mello,   gnome shell will break Unity
just to show you my disks
coz_ hmm.. fair point. It rather seems that unity breaks gnome shell
lmao
coz_ give me 5 minutes
escott, ok what can i do?
nice work with 11.04, When I first started 11.04 I got an error saying Unity didn't work, and fallback to gnome. I've since then installed graphics drivers etc, and now when I reboot I get gnome all the time. Is there something I have to do to force it to use Unity again?
hello
escott, i dont know alot
any of you guys have trouble with networking in natty
tahnks ohsix
on login screen under session select ubuntu
thanos, evidently what happens when you do sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt/ext4
i cant get wiredlan unless i disconnect my wire from the router and reconnect it
worked perfect in 10.10
I am using "Ubuntu" as my session, but it gives me gnome anyway... Maybe I have somethign wrong wtih my graphics driver (sorry bad spelling)
fatbrain_t; is it ubuntu or ubuntu classic
escott, nothing write
ubuntu.
a friend of mine upgraded to natty, and the system is (quietly) crashing at startup... (I suspect about the wifi driver, because it's brcm80211), anyone knows?
WTF is this
11.04 is wth
iirc, there was some command I could type to see if glx or something was enabled... I'll google and see if I can figure it out :) thanks for input.
 that should give you unity sorry can not help it is first day I use it
can't boot into ubuntu after alternative 11.04 install, hangs after grub, any ideas?
no problem. Thanks.
xinel what kind of computer you got man?
hi, i have some problems isntallin an i386 program ona 64bit ubuntu
WTH I can't use the windows key for shortcuts
its so weird that stuff that worked perfect in a previous version suddenly stops working
hi will the next relase of arch linux be like arch vista ?
 give me a sec
realease of arch?
Anyone with nvidia error while calculating the changes?
you can, just configure compiz
just bits and pieces i put together, is there a problem with certain hardware atm?
I have
wait the CURRENT grub seems to be grub-pc, right?
thanos its mounted fine, /dev/sda1 on / type ext4 (rw,errors=remount-ro,commit=0) /dev/sda3 on /media/22c795f0-2bb4-4730-9f46-bd422497a4be type btrfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,uhelper=udisks)
seems hopeful. rm-ing the list files from /var/lib/apt/lists and then apt-get update seems to fix it for that list, but lots of lists seem to have issues. running through all of them...
anyone knows how to get i386 libs to work in a 64bit?
jdahm, no grub 1 is grub-pc
hola
I had that problem. Follow what it says. Turns out I had an unofficial software source that I had to remove before upgrading.
hola
hola
can you be a bit more specific then? what are you trying to achieve?
what is grub2 then?  I want to reinstall it
hi
 in terminal  fglrxinfo
might download and try desktop install, wandering if its a problem with encryption :/
wondering
escott, i want the files from sda3 and sda6
How are we supposed to know? Ask in the Arch channel, If you don't think this question is kinda weird.
I think that's for ATI users only.
hi everybody
Taskbar at the bottom, window buttons or the right, use of windows key for shortcuts
jdahm, sorry im wrong
emerald for window decorator
jdahm, grub-pc is grub2 and the old grub1 is grub
 yes and you are using nvidia?
thanos, well sda3 is mounted on /media/22c...
think I have intel mobile gpu
thanos, for sda6 you just need to define your mountpoint and mountit
escott,how
ok
   glxinfo
i booted into Ubuntu 11.04 and I don't get an upgrade option
it only allows me to install it alongside 10.10
hi, where is the menu bar in new firefox?
thanos, with sudo mount /dev/sda6 /mnt/mountpoint-of-your-choosing
escott, i mount it before and doesnt open
well, im impressed
Ubuntu 11.04
hi. how can i change the workspace grid from a 2x2 to the old 1x4 grid?
thanos, are you expecting a window to just pop-up
hi
cassio, should be accessible in ccsm
escott, i can't seem to find it
rcmaehl, you are going to have to read the manual I'm afraid. You can start by maybe using KDE if you want a "start menu" and a taskbar at the bottom. Or you could move the panels around
escott, Ive looked in expo and desktop wall
tudo bem
ok trying again...
you can't use kde on a netbook man, you just can'y
i have 2 hard drives, but icant paste files to emty one
can't*
Today I was trying Natty so ..Do you think Natty 11.04 (Unity) will be the Vista phase of Ubuntu ? I mean Vista as in Windows Vista
just right click on the switcher > preferences
For nVidia best download the .run file from their website to your homedirectory, then Alt + Ctrl + F1 --> sudo service gdm stop --> sudo sh ./NVIDIA-Linux_x86-270.41.06.run When the installer is sone, just restart X.
could not get <super>+<button4-5> to zoom-in-out in compiz ezoom while using Unity
yes
45
thanks, I'll try that.
Samsagax, right click on the switcher doesnt bring up any options in the launcher
how do i can paste date and time in logfile,  example "time >> logfile.log"
To remove it just use "./NVIDIA-Linux_x86-270.41.06.run --uninstall" instead.
 np
Unity loaded a huge band of icons to the left but that many and no labels is quite useless
thanos, you need to mkdir that mountpoint first
U mean in unity? you just can't
libreoffice vs open office?
Galvatron this is durring the upgrade i'm still in 10.10
...does anyone know how to get multiple terminals..?!
in natty
Samsagax, yes, Im using 11.04. there's no way to change the 2x2 grid to a 1x4?
is there any configuration possible besides the stuff in the ccsm unity plugin?
Monotoko,   keep opening multiple instances ?
like the size of the dash
<3 ;>
I'm trying to pin an application to the system tray in unity, but when I logout and log back in, the application disappears from the system tray
missing autoloading of sound modules snd-hda-intel, snd-ac97-codec, snd-pcm. Has to load them manually and restart pulseaudio after login-in
any ideas what's going wrong?
firefox menu button is missing on ubuntu natty D:
oi
assuming you have gnome classic?
R click check "keep in launcher"
Monotoko,  I am on natty now with 4 terminals opened... just open a new one and another instance will show up
gnome-volume-control crash whenever I engage a speaker test
idk unity just crashed and I can't reload it
I'm using natty too, got another problem with i386 programs, but in Gnome (Classic ubuntu) you can change the 2x2 to 1x4 grid
zombie__, libreoffice open office is dead
anyone knows how I find out if my ssd supports TRIM?
the upgrade screwed up my shortcuts
to open multiple terminals click the terminal icon with the middle mouse button
don't use unity
scroll to the section about the firefox menu button
Samsagax, yup, I know in the old version it worked. strange you can't change it in unity
It will be fastest to just download the 11.04 .iso
Leprikonas, ah I completely forgot about middle click :)
Samsagax, I like the screen space gain in unity. but it seems to be a little crippled as of yet
compiz ezoom mouse tracking default to an insane 40ms giving sloppy zoom mouvments
can i UPGRADE using the ISO? im on 10.10
in unity you can't change almost nothing
Your day is getting better and better lol. I would roll back to 10.04. I'm not upgrading for a while yet because unity is *cough* unstable :-)
compiz ezoom default to no zoom shortcuts
but is just my oppinion
oh man the upgrade is going so slow.  Is it just because everyone is connected?
abys:Installing it from a scratch will be 2-3x faster.
snif, I was wishing to not reinstall from scratch!! :'(
!clone
To replicate your packages selection on another machine (or restore it if re-installing), you can type « aptitude  --display-format '%p' search '?installed!?automatic' > ~/my-packages », move the file "my-packages" to the other machine, and there type « sudo xargs aptitude --schedule-only install < my-packages ; sudo aptitude install » - See also !automate
All my programs and configs for couple of years :p
use alternate cd iso and you will can
Galvatron backing up my banshee musicdatabase and all applications will be a pain
zookalicious, how to enter addons mannager without the menu button?
how remove all gnome stuff in natty?
Do you have just one partition for system and /home + data?
it will be in the panel if you are using Unity
if you use above command you will have to install all packages again
Galvatron yep
hel please
I'll give Debian testing a try tomorrow, too much problems with Natty
make separate home
help
can't install a i386 application on my 64bit ubuntu natty
I use unity
!info ia32-libs
Package ia32-libs does not exist in natty
zookalicious, i can see only the tabs, and the page content only
I truly admire yourcourage, trying to install a freash and potentially problematic system on such setup.
cassio, "Launch CCSM yet again, and select General Options from the category 'General'. Select the tab 'Desktop Size' and choose the values you want. Simple as that."
got it, but just won't install
Today I was trying Natty so ..Do you think Natty 11.04 (Unity) will be the Vista phase of Ubuntu ? I mean Vista as in Windows Vista
#ubuntu is the Ubuntu support channel, for all Ubuntu-related support questions. Please use #ubuntu-offtopic for other topics (though our !guidelines apply there too). Thanks!
Do NOT touch Natty unless you make a separate partition for the main system.
get 'wrong architecture'? use "the force"!
sfdsafdsafdsa, ubuntu 11.04 is the Win7 stage - Vista indeed
is it hard to migrate the home drive?
jibadeeha, thanks. that did the trick
cassio, no worries
I'm using "ssh user@server.com "ls $MYVARIABLE", where $MYVARIABLE is set in the user profile.  This never works unless I log in instead of issuing only the command at the end.  Why? Is there  a workaround?
If you are using Unity, then the menu option should be in the panel (the very top of the screen), otherwise I don't know what to tell you.
done that, it says i need some dependencies, i installed them and got the same message again
No. Download Gparted LiveCD and create an 8192MB ext4 partition. That's all.
zookalicious, what is unity, im on live cd ubuntu
hey, is anyone here using Ubuntu 11.04 on Parallels? Can't get Parallels tools to install. Any help will be appreciated!
ninjai, because you aren't getting a login shell
won't install even with force-all
8GB for / and rest for /home?
Unity is the desktop environment that is default in Ubuntu version 11.04
Then, during the installation just choose the manual partation setup and use the 8GB one as "/" mount point", and the second one as "/home" mount point (obviously do NOT mark /home for formatting).
how do I change the startup sound?
what alternative ISO? i have the 11.04 ISO, but i just want to upgrade
how remove all gnome stuff in natty?
zookalicious, f**k, now ubuntu is like mac os x
would be great and easy if I had space available on my HD :/
you shouldn't if you use unity
have to make space no choice
no, mac is like linux
aguitel,   what is it you dont want specifically?
Samsagax, i will install gnome-core
Unity is the default desktop environment, however if you do not like it, select Ubuntu Classic Desktop at the login screen
no unity is like mac
linux is just the kernel
coz_, install gnome-core only
ninjafish, meant for ninjai
skulltip, but ubuntu ubuntu (graphic interface) copies mac
what's wrong with that tyhpoon, there's a reason macs are expensive besides greedy executives
and windows 9 copies chrome, then years later buys the patents and tries to stiffle competition
ninjai, instead of ssh "ls $MYVARIABLE" do ssh "/bin/bash --login \"ls $MYVARIABLE\""
AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH! SO many error messages! I thought 11.04 was stable
I was correcting you, not comparing the 2
no one can help me?
 * macs installs ubuntu 11.04 :D
skulltip-  I think he was just picking at the Linux != full OS point
no
 I don´ think you can upgrade with desktop cd maybe something is changes but that is how is use to be
run
whai?
:) i dont mind great ideas being shared, just dont go patent trolling
aguitel,  not sure how much left  you will have with just core,,, I dont have a good answer for you,, its likely Unity will break if you do this..however,, you could go to gimpnet server and the #gnome  main channel and ask
Why 11.04 is so bugged? How to DOWNGRADE?
phoenixsampras, you cant
zvacet-  you can upgrade from CD now
ubuntu 11 64 bit hangs on installing ubiquity (could not find module nvidia and more of those), clean install.. couldn't find any bugs that completely describe the problem. Any ideas?
your machine?
DGM, hangs where?
Mac is Mac, and it is Linux that copies its features.
cheers man, have a look at it
Galvatron-  All OS' copy other OS'
while installing ubiquity it just spams with could not found module and then just hangs
 reinstall 10.10
that being said, i'm still on 10.10
Galvatron-  In different ways. It's healthy competition.
ubuntu 11.04, every time you change a compiz setting unity crashes
I have install ubuntu 11.04 - new istanlation with cable internet... now don't run the wi-fi
amd phenom 2 x6 1090T, 4 gb ram, nvidia gtx 295
I didn´t see that option during install can you point me to the link
My Ubu 10.10 (GNOME) is modified to be a Win/Mac hybrid.
then is not an hybrid graphics problem
gtfo
I notice in a fresh install of natty, that services like acpid and irqbalance are not set to run. Are these not needed anymore? I intend to use the box as a qemu-KVM server
11.04 looks like a ripped version of MACOSx
zvacet-  one second
it complains about more modules then just nvidia.. it's almost like it can't find any at all
Am I the only one who noticed quicken listed on the ubuntu website? Is that now available in the software center?
ubuntu is smart for wanting to spread to devices they can profit from, good for them
!offtopic
#ubuntu is the Ubuntu support channel, for all Ubuntu-related support questions. Please use #ubuntu-offtopic for other topics (though our !guidelines apply there too). Thanks!
blacklist nouveau
phoenixsampras,  i couldnt agree more ,, however  "there it is "  :)
hi
try gnome-classic on a pad
you mean the kernel services?
after waiting for ages on the setup i desided to look at why it was stopping.. and it was stuck on that missing module line while installing "ubiquity"
and check the xorg.conf
i just upgraded my ubuntu from 10.1 to 11.04
it is like... MACOSX for the poor man
hi!, I just upgraded from ubuntu 10.10 to 11.04, and now my pc cant start...I only see a command line with "grub rescue >"....any ideas how to fix grub? :( :( :(
mac is bsd based very originall don´t you think
i'm still in the setup though... it hasnt even fully installed yet
can you frame that as a support question
i'll have to close my mouth until i can upgrade
I have install ubuntu 11.04 - new istanlation with cable internet... now don't run the wi-fi .. how i doing?
the screen is blank
just upgraded to 11.04 via update-manager -d. after restart, i get "Ubuntu 10.10 The disk drive for / is not ready yet or not present..." how to fix? :\
why
Natty upgrade complete.  so....how do I configure this sidebar thing?
acicula, well, I'm using Boot-up manager, and its the services that start at boot
zookalicious:ok
Unity looks this way because it was designed for tablets and netbooks and it's much different from OSX interface.
had installed the graphics drivers incorrectly, reinstalled and now Unity works. Cheers!
ohh.. i think you should install with no drivers and then install the drivers, is safer that way
phoenixsampras,  there has been a slight leaning towards mac like  look ,, buttons on the left and now global menu.. I am not sure what the long term vision for ubuntu is,, I just know did not get it right  but  there are people who think they did so ,, as I said   "there it is "
enjoy your ubuntu  :)
you don't :-) options are considered to be too confusing
!hardware
This is linux not windows :-)
im wondering why the Xorg Propietary drivers testing stopped ad week 3
err im not familiar with boot-up manager. the services you mentioned sound familiar but are you experiencing an actual problem or just wondering why they are not appearing anymore?
I know but natty is still not as stable as it should be
typhoon, Linux uses drivers as well
but all i did was insert the usb stick, picked what partition it should all go to, and hit install.. and then poof. it even wrecked my grub but i managed to get that back up through a live cd
zvacet crazy idea, what do you think about remapping /home on a USB HD, rezise disk and remap to the new partition? possible or stupid?
I know, I still have to hack in some 2d sis drivers for my old laptop. Seems I have had a sense of humour failure or something
Hey guys, I'm trying to connect a small board to the internet via a wlan1 connection, but can't get any DHCP offers. ideas?
sorry, the small board runs ubuntu.
Broadcom 802.11 Linux STA wireless driver don't run
strange
.
night guys. Good luck with Natty
did you check the "format" option in the / mount?
yep ofc
ckserv identify no!way
I assume if the disk can't read your current installation for whatever reason then you will not see the option on the screen I sent you.
i have a /, a 4 gb swap and some ntfs'es for windows
hi. i have just installed xubuntu 11.04. is there a way to apt-get only libreoffice writer and calc? (yeah, i'd like to have an minimal libreoffice installation in my xubuntu environment)
Can anybody confirm that quicken is now available in the software center?
just as me, i don't know what is happening to you. Try to install again witout networ
maybe because it is multiboot
BEWARE, broken brcm80211 *confirmed*
try tab complete and see if it shows you?
You can use your <tab> key for autocompletion of nicknames in IRC, as well as for completion of filenames and programs on the command line.
funny thing is, when i look through bug reports, they say its either fixed last month, or say they're a duplicate of a bug that looks nothing like what is described xD
that would be likely.
anyone can help me about i386 apps in amd64 architecture
?
farewell!
zvacet-  I haven't touched a 11.04 CD yet so I wouldn't know
Idon´t know I never did it
?
you could set up a 32 chroot, that worked fine for me :)
as i've said, natty is not as stable as it should be
sound like challenge :)
bit*
so it works if you have only ubuntu?
tried that... didn't work
 options are a requirement for me to use something.  lack of options = stress, annoyance, irritation, and frustration :P
zvacet-  I'm not sure, I haven't tried it, but I could see that being a problem.
ye, disappointing :) oh well. I guess i'll use windows for a while hehe
use maverick, it is good as it should be
missing lib or something? What's the error it gives?
possibly because I saw about that option on net but I didn´t so it during install
is it possible to install ubuntu on a usb stick ???
the natty installer had a very nice fullscreen plymouth ubuntu boot/quit logo.. but after install at boot only a purple rectangle and at shutdown the ubuntu logo in low res. How can I fix this?
when you tyoe in sudo apt-get install op<tab> and it will show you a list of options
gives an error about missing dependencies, i have the dependencies installed, but it just keeps telling me that i dont
wazzup.yes
from or on?
how are you all someone have any course from nagios can than help me please
on
nope, it will not :)
why not?
wazzup, it is, I'm pretty sure instructions are on ubuntu.com
hm did you install those deps in your chroot though?
sudo apt-get synaptic && gksu synaptic will be the easiest way.
i will try to find it :)
how can i know for sure?
take ir or leave it (and facing the possibilty that more users don't take, but leave)
sudo apt-get synaptic && gksu synaptic will be the easiest way.
Mybad
i'm downloading 11.04 right now, and i've taken notice that unity is used by default. is it easy to switch back to the regular gnome desktop instead?
bittyx-laptop-  yup
!unity
Yes, select classic at login.
funny thing is i had this app installed on averick w/o anything else than ia32-libs
Log out and choose "Ubuntu Classic"
how are you all someone have any course from nagios
 yeah, on the login screen
that is too isntall from a usb drive :p not on a usb drive
woot, so many answers. thanks guys, but as i've already said, i'm downloading at the moment, so i haven't had a chance to try it out myself yet. just asking so i would know what to expect. thanks again!
bittyx-laptop-  no problem. Give Unity a try though before returning to Gnome-Classic. It's not for everyone yet, but you might like it.
wazzup, I was thinking from, not on.  You can run it like a live CD from the stick, but I'm not sure if you can fully run it from a stick.
have a server box that has a failed upgrade to 11.04 - trying to recover using a recovery CD. I did a series of apt-get -f and dpkg --configure -a .... that made some progress, however it appears to have reached the end. dpgk --configure -a keeps failing
can I force a re-application of the upgrade?
if I cancel the ubuntu upgrade to 11 from within 10.10, can I resume it later?
you need to be more specific as to how it is failing (pastebin)
is like having a second OS
its too slow at the moment.
hehe ye
So I just upgraded to ubuntu 11.04 and it doesn't do 3d accelleration?
Soothsayer-  I don't beleive so
if it's only at the download stage, it's ok
also, my download is going at a snail-like ~25KBps (even though i have a 1.5Mbit connection, so i should have more like ~150KBps) - i assume this is because the servers are overloaded at the moment?
jrib, can't paste bin - no ssh, using recovery CD
I was doing a system upgrade, and at about 99% it crashed. Now on normal boot I'm having issues, but I can boot in failsafe mode.
I seem to have a problem; I just installed compiz-config, used it, and after changing some options, the taskbar and launcher are gone. I can't even open the start menu with the meta key.
you don't have internet on the machine?
i guess it says 32 bit recommended for a reason :P
it says I have the ati drivers running, but everything renders slower and jerkier than 10.10.
but I will lose everything I've downloaded so far right? :-(
no
join /virtualbox
jrib, in a console, nothing use. no X
me?
i know that live CD is possible but that way i cnat save anything :p
how are you all someone have any course from nagios
jrib, I can bring up networking via the recovery CD, but still no browser
oh, that's nice then.. its in the "Getting new packages" page.. its already fetched some 150 packages.
i'm just gonna go to bed.. when i wake up tomorrow all the problems will be solved.. probably.. maybe.. hopefully
nite
habriel, what's up?
it works!
hey does btrfs still need a ext4 boot
sudo dpkg --configure -a - it will finish yhe uncomplete job.
thanks for all your help!
jdahm, excellent
jdahm, so it was a stray mbr?
I very much like the new interface.  I don't know why people are complaining
I think so
Galvatron, Thankyou. Got many similar issues tonight?
hi
unity not working in virtualbox?
unity seems to insist that i should use the classic theme
you were on the ball with your suggestion
jdahm, well now you have plenty of backup mbrs if sda goes out
Does Ubuntu 11.04 now use Wayland instead of X?
nooo please dont say lies like that
the default theme flashes quickly and changes to the classic variant
Galvatron, I'll try a reboot. Hope it works!
<zvacet> i will check that site out
can someone help me restore 11.04?  just upgraded the driver to nvidia-current and gdm does not start during boot
no
any way to get the buttons in the launcher to have a hover effect?
baa.. feels kinda kiddy (the interface)
when it will use Wayland please?
KMFrog-  Unity works in the newest version of Virtualbox, but not the version from the Ubuntu repository
does anyone know how to start the terminal without using the launcher or the start menu?
11.10
stuff is too big in the left bar.. can that be reduced though ?
nice! :D
maybe
I like the interface.  Linux needs better interfaces.  This is one organizations take on it
it seems valid i will try it :)
Update to Vbox 4.x (from the oracle .deb) and install virtualbox-ose-X11 (inside the guest OS)
not set in stone yet
fingers crossed
How do I report a bug in the Natty installer? I have Launchpad account, but when I click on Report a Bug, I just get taken to another web page about reporting bugs...
 ;)
beats the hell out of gnome3
Turn off 'sync to vblank' option from OpenGL section in Compiz config settings manager - no more laggy interface on ATI fglrx drivers
!update
i am setting  nagios and haven't much experience i'd like find any course from nagio
you probably want to redirect stderr too.  Or just create a file you want to pastebin and send that to ssh.jrib.net on port 12345
i run kde now soo you can see my thoughts on both of them
just upgraded to 11.04 via update-manager -d. after restart, i get "Ubuntu 10.10 The disk drive for / is not ready yet or not present..." how to fix? :\
how to do the dist-upgrade from commandline?
habriel, course? there are a few decent books and a lot of info on the net
dugger5688 i'm running vbox 4.0.6, i'll try updating guest addons
thanks jrib - what did you do, proxy to pastebin? brb... server is in rack in other room
Is b2 the same as "stable" ?
follow the server instructions
habriel, I'd guess you'll be able to find a course as well
at first I switched to KDE when gnome3 came out and gnome2 sucked, but KDE is worse than all these new interfaces (combined?) ha
Howdi. I just upgraded from 10.10 to 11.04, and I'm left with a desktop with icons but no menus (guessing Unity didnt fire up properly) :/ Any suggestions ?
crap... alt-tab doesn't work
I get warning telling me that I'm not on 11.04 and that my current version is 11.04
ubuntu one have bug in tekst
?
ah thanks!
yeah I have an old script I wrote that will listen and pastebin
not 4.6 yea i hated kde 3 man it was junk
it's mostly useless nowadays because of things like pastebinit but you can't install pastebinit easily because your packaging system is broken
I dunno about the rest of you but I REALLY have to be able to customise the main menu and launcher bar ... REALLY!!!
jrib, talk about valuable now thought... brb
zrogg-  do you mean the menus normally in the top left?
when I dual boot between windows and ubuntu, the mac address is the same on both right? My ISP's login client uses my mac-address.
Soothsayer, yes
looking at screenshots, how in any way does it copy a mac??!?
in the meantime I need to grab some food.  I'll be back in 10.  I may have 12345 blocked on the router.  If so, I'll take care of that when I return :)
Soothsayer, if you haven't changed it in one of the OSes of course
I have never tried or seen Unity before, so I have no idea what it is suppose to look like. But atm I'm only seeing a desktop wallpaper and my usual icons :)
it is first  day but I think unity comes that way just icons on the left	
zrogg - The new desktop for Ubuntu 11.04 looks fairly different from 10.10
is there a way to get ANY applet working in unity?
if you want the panels (and their customization) back, log in with the classic session
ooh, I *can* configure the sidebar!
anyone know how to fix root filesystem not mounting?
zrogg-  Try clicking the Ubuntu logo in the top left, should bring up the Dash
dugger5688 updating guest additions did the trick, thanks :]
 no, that is not a solution ... people keep on saying that :(
Samsagax, weather at top or so works ... webupd8.org ...
Nevermind... I've figured it out...
Glad to hear it, have fun!
then you get what you get
hello which software do you recommend for adobe flash?
same for you :]
hm, I don't have an icon there I'm afraid :/
entity, check for errors?
also just noticed that the top panel is no longer editable ... why can't I add my menu applet back!?
how the filesystem won't mount.
yep, and it seems Ubuntu us heading towards lockdown  .... like MS and Mac :P
sudo apt-get install adobe-flashplugin
hmm.  xchat no longer shows in the system tray despite having the option set
the 'flashplugin-installer' provides the flash player
zetheroo, because it's a whole new program ... if you need your menu you have to use gnome afaik
i get "Ubuntu 10.10 The disk drive for / is not ready yet or not present..." upon boot. after that it says the same thing about /tmp
Where do I find the old application gnome list in Unity or something similar?
thanks usr13  and yofel
zetheroo, that's only for the basic users
how so?
zetheroo, i don't think so... then you couldn't switch what you always can on linux
zetheroo, only the default experience
what?
As you can see, there are choices.
zetheroo, nobody prevents you from running Gnome, or XFce
so... i upgraded to natty, and now i can't install fglrx
zetheroo, or KDE
great ....
or better, i can, but it doesn't boot :\
As you can see, there are choices.
you've been told your options, you disagree; apparently with how it used to be as well, not just hoe it is now
entity, I would boot from livecd and check the disk from there (without mounting) did you do an upgrade or so right before?
anyone had a similar experience?
yeah, my desktop doesn't look like that at all. It seems like I'm running my old gnome just without any menus, sidebars or anything :/ Would a screenie of my desktop help ?
none of those are "Ubuntu"  - and that was my point!
zrogg - tried logging in and out? or restarting?
excuse me? What are you on about?
point is that complaining *here* will change absolutely nothing, either raise your point to the ayatana team or remote participate on the ubuntu developer summit
hi again, is there anyway to stop automaticaly maximize windows on unity? as at the moment they maximize when i moving them by the nome-panel
yup, doesn't seem to help
My dpkg --configure -a produced no output. On reboot, I am still presented with a flashing underline.
more people need to go the cd-upgrade route. :-( running package updates is painful right now.
after natty upgrade from lucid my network card says "link is not ready" in dmesg... I cannot enable it in any way, suggestions?
usr13, i was installing flashplugin-installer with synaptics and it was gonna take like over 15 minutes and i thought something was wrong with that and maybe i should try something else
intel agn4965
zetheroo, he's right, this is for support primarily
yes, I was running 10.10 and I upgraded with update-manager -d
you don't find it at all frustrating that an completely un-configurable menu/panel/launcher are given in place of what was completely customisable!?
I've noticed that GB mirrors are very slow, but switching to a different geographic location improved things vastly. (for me, I just dropped the geograpy)
so support ... ;)
zetheroo, take it somewhere else plz ...
zetheroo, $aptitude search ^xfce4$
p   xfce4                                                                                            - Meta-package for the Xfce Lightweight Desktop Environment
Well, with so many doing a distribution upgrade now installing from repos will be slow.
this is plain Ubuntu
zrogg - thats odd
They are all overloaded today.
I do not WANT to run XFCE!!
zetheroo, then don't
zrogg - Sorry I'm not too sure what to advise, I haven't started using 11.04 yet, I just know what it's supposed to look like
zetheroo, it's just an example
tried modprobing iwlagn, rfkill, nothing makes the wireless work. Works fine in windows on same computer
zetheroo, that what you're saying is not true - there is no lockdown
The upgrade to natty seems to have broken nautilus. is this a known issue?
usr13,  oh so thats all it was
that's allright. Thanks for the suggestions, I'll keep chipping away at the problem.
jdahm, thats a lot of ram
entity, it's hard to tell what went wrong, did it mention any errors before reboot? otherwise try to boot from livecd or rescue mode and check the disk (it doesn't have to be mounted)
no I installed it by click on applications and find it under system>additional hardware drivers
What wireless card do you have?
zrogg-  Best of luck
back
usr13, intel agn4965
to the extent that I want to configure - yes
zetheroo, then what's wrong w normal gnome?
you said you didn't want to use the classic session, which has panels and is the same as before
The NickServ does NOT recognize my password!!
My dpkg --configure -a produced no output. On reboot, I am still presented with a flashing underline.
90% of the reason I upgraded in the first place was to get to use the new look .... why bother mmoving from 10.10!?
Why doesn't flash work in 11.04?
Osmodivs, - #freenode
zvacet, i tried that... but it errors out :(
Well that one should work ok.  Is it turned off? Or has the network manager have it dissabled somehow?
Hey!
absolutely correct ... as that is NOT a solution to the real issue ... that there is a lack of customisability HERE!
why bother indeed, shouldn't you have asked yourself that before you did it?
locked in? if developers would write BF4 for it like they do with the current pc platforms, it would be worth it
that is desired, use what you like
Anyone?
"Ubuntu 10.10 The diskdrive for / is not ready yet or is not present [...]"
zetheroo, oh so you upgraded and it doesn't work? I though you just didn't like/want it...
rcmaehl_rant, i wondered if something was wrong with flash too but looks like i just needed to install it i'm doing that now
george_ what was your question
george_ I can't answer it but repeat it anyway
Oh, I am sorry ... I did not get the memo from Canonical about that ...
it will error out
usr13, actually it has been a problem since the last dist upgrade, I always had to right click the icon to enable the wireless and then it would connect. Now I have to rfkill to un-gray the "enable wireless" item in the right click menu but clicking it makes no networks show and dmesg still says link is not ready. Tried removing battery, holding power button for 30 seconds and booting up again,
same problem. Windows is fine.
which automatically means it did not finish upgrading to 11.04
entity, yes, but I meant before when you ran the upgrade
rcmaehl_rant, oh i see i hope i dont run into that problem
Is Google Chrome working on Natty? I get an error when trying to install the .deb
yes I upgraded ... and it all works ... afaik ... but it "working" is not the issue I suppose ...
still there is a problem with 32bit libs
george_ yeah, no idea. when in doubt, google it
did you try via the app store
After upgrading from maverik to natty, nautilus is unusably slow. Using classic gnome. Any takers?
you presume you would have? you're setting up a strawman you know; you could have provided useful input for months, but you're here now, when you can just use what you're familiar with
I loaded Ubuntu 11 on a USB. It works fine when booting from it on my MacBook Pro, but I for some reason get "Boot Error" everytime I boot it on my ASUS P5N-D. Any ideas or suggestions? I've googled it and I can't seem to find a solution.
I wasn't here to see what would have went wrong with it. I'll try a disk check from live env and get back
george_ or repeat it a few times until someone smarter takes notice
I didn't know it was in local repos, I will try
wow i got 3 hours 57 minutes remaining to finish installing flash
Sure... Thanks, anyway...
 You might try switching to wicd
I need 64 bit version
hi, do i have shortcuts in bashee from the desktop ? like i want to skip a song while browsing
32 bit will work just fine
Hi, i need help with grub on 11.04, any takers?
usr13, thanks I will try
sudo apt-get install wicd ; sudo apt-get remove network-manager
the buttons in the launcher are too big, they need a hover feature and need to animate when clicked on ... stuff liek that ... plus the menu is making we work twice as hard to get to what I need ... more clicks etc ... not cool
32 will run on 64 but 64 will not run on 32
Hi. Any word on why compiz-config won't fully import old configuration files, and why it wipes my config when upgrading?
I don't want to repeat my question, since it seems rude, but I'm kinda stuck and would really like some help :)
brb, reboot
i have a partition that i'm consistently getting an EIO error. i there a tool that will help my diagnose the problem?
Avoid following your questions with a trail of "Please, help me", "Can nobody help me?", "I really need this!", and so on. This just contributes to making the channel unreadable. If you are not answered, ask again later; but see also !repeat and !attitude
I like it :)  It's for computational physics simulations
I am sorry again ... I work 9-5 mon - fri .... don't have a whole lot of time to test software and all ... I just thought that with the past of Ubuntu (and Linux) being so pro-customisability that I would never find myself here
Today I was trying Natty so ..Do you think Natty 11.04 (Unity) will be the Vista phase of Ubuntu ? I mean Vista as in Windows Vista
Is there any way to resume the upgrade process? My keyboard was on my ubuntu laptop here, and I forgot. I hit escape and the upgrade status window went away. I go back into the update manager and it says there's no updates or upgrade.
!repeat
unfortunately you can't go back in time and communicate this
jrib, thanks for the help so far! apparently one of the last runs of dpkg or apt-get broke something worse. Can't get a shell anymore. Going to reinstall base system. data is on raid anyway
!repeat
Hi ! I'm on ubuntu 11.04 Beta (1 or 2) and I want to install the new release, how can I do that ?
well it's not "anti" either, idon't know why you are here
that's something for #ubuntu-offtopic
please*
Tried update to 1104. System crash at about 99%. I have run apt-get update, apt-get upgrade, apt-get autoremove, dpkg --configure -a. I am unable to boot into normal mode, when I do. I am greeted by a flashing underscore. I am currently in failsafe mode
!attitude
go to releases.ubuntu.com
it will do it for you just do update and upgrade
what is unfortunate is the lack of customisability ...
I loaded Ubuntu 11 on a USB. It works fine when booting from it on my MacBook Pro, but I for some reason get "Boot Error" everytime I boot it on my ASUS P5N-D. Any ideas or suggestions? I've googled it and I can't seem to find a solution.
If you install a development version of Ubuntu Natty and keep up with package updates, then you will be upgraded to the official release of 11.04 when it comes out. To make sure, type « sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade » in a console.
you know even gnomes panel isn'e enough to sate a lot of people? i hope you understand it's all relative & the line you've drawn is just as arbitrary
clean installs always work better than upgrades
and use the bit torrent, others are just jammed
if you upgrade, be used to having headaches
jdahm, headaches teach you new things. :)
seems I fixed my no-menu-problem by running "compiz --replace"
that's not the case usually, at least for me upgrades have always worked fine
some would call that a good thing, myself included, but i run the machines for my family
I came hoping that I just did not know enough and that someone knew how to edit this stuff ... I could not believe that it was completely locked-down ....
is there any difference in reliability between installing from the liveCD or using unetbootin and a USB drive?
jdahm, besides, this is my first issue in years.
hey all....having a problem with front panel audio, if i start audio it everything defaults to rear panel however if i run aplay /some/audio.wav and start another track durring the aplay it goes to the front panel, any tips on how to toggle between front and back panel only?
yofel just from experience, I have had to fix way too many friends' upgraded installations
it's not, it's just different, the options for the unity plugin & the rest of compiza are available in ccsm
supposedly apt provides libapt-pkg-libc6, but if I get the package and look inside, it's not there?
irc.cde.wtbts.net
*if* update-manager messed up the upgrade, please file bugs about that, it shouldn't happen
I can also attest to having problems with direct upgrades.
the "panel" is nearly vestigial now, it serves no purpose like it did in gnome proper
ok, thanks all, so it seems I'm up to date, but I get the same crash has before (beta) when I boot (I don't know what it is, just that something is crashing and that's it), does someone know how to get rid of that (I can provide you with informations if you tell me how ;) )
ok ... why are they in a 3rd-party app? ...
my today upgrade maverick->natty was fine :D no problem :)
where do I place my weather applet?
most of the time it's because GPG keys were somehow deleted for PPA's
isn't that that choice you were just talking about? i'm not sure what you're asking
rafii-  That's good to hear. I was just remarking that typically I find clean installations to be more reliable.
I think natty is going to make me want to do more stuff in the console
same place you did before, on the panel; whats in unity is not a panel
gui's are overrated anyways :)
you can check whether you are at full upgrade in console type lsb_release -a
missing GPG keys will only get you warnings, not errors, so that shouldn't mess up anything. Well, it will give you an occasional warning, true
so your saying there IS a way to customise the menu system and launcher?
What does /etc/fstab say?
so true
+1 :)
you'll really be boned w/gnome-shell, enjoy what you have now
in natty/unity (unatty?), apps aren't staying pinned to the Launch (i.e., I r_click, Keep in Launcher, logout, login, and it's gone)
any ideas?
ok, I can't see any mentions of beta or rc, is that it ?
Okay. So this may be a video drivers issue. lsb_release -a says I'm 11.04
I loaded Ubuntu 11 on a USB. It works fine when booting from it on my MacBook Pro, but I for some reason get "Boot Error" everytime I boot it on my ASUS P5N-D. Any ideas or suggestions? I've googled it and I can't seem to find a solution.
I did not think there was anythign too wrong with Gnome-shell ...
thats it
i'm not saying that; i'm saying you want a panel; use the session with a  panel
you said there was something in ccsm
mmm 12hrs till my upgrade completes :P
Eathuz, using the mac optimized image maybe
not what you are asking, it is not a panel, i said what settings there _are_, some are available there
I'm on a different machine... I'll type it into a pastebin and get back
so, why do I get a crash warning when I boot ? It did that on the beta 1, but I wouldn't expect it to append on the final one.... Or can that be gnome 3 (which works perfectly)
Sylphid, tried downloading it and building the USB both from Mac and Windows.
yeah ok ... the panel is not my main concern ... the main things are the launcher and menu
so the panel, noted
6months to get everything right might seem like a long time, but trust me you will get a flurry of updates and upgrades in the next couple of months
panel is not a biggy ...
ok well I should head out
sit and wait then, ok, thanks !
usr13, wicd did the trick together with sudo rfkill unblock wifi - thank you so much! must be a bug with natty and iwlagn...
in my opinion it depend how much someone modificate original system, if more non-stock configuration/modification = greater chance of encounter problem during updating
or file bug reports
I did on the beta
they could have made a right-click menu for the launcher ... couldn't they ...
rafi - I would agree with that statement. However I remember my upgrade from 9.04 to 9.10 was when I had nothing configured special and that broke hard. Luck of the draw I suspect
george_, it looks like there is some unexpected package versions
why? so people can see a menu they can't do anything with anyways? you're presuming an educated user, an educated user can already get what they want with the classic session
Hi, my internet/browser on ubuntu 10.04 has been acting weird for the past couple of days. When I click on a link on google search, it would redirect me to google.com. Sometimes clicking a link on a webpage would redirect me to twitter. And sometimes it would give me a google 404 error. I cannot think of anything that might have caused this and this happens randomly.
are you sure you didn't mix two ubuntu versions?
ok.  minimizing to the system tray does *not* work in Unity
anyone know if kismet appeneds or overwrites log files?
Eathuz, whats the error message displayed?
is anyone using natty and has a printer?
if so PM me please
the system tray is obsolete in unity afaik
that would be an application feature
where does stuff go then? in the unity bar?
indeed, you need to whitelist things that work for them to even show up
yep, older versions was more problematic :) hopefully newer version will be better :D
who here is using Natty?
ohsix...skype was showing up in my systray fine?
who isn't, did you have a question
do any of you have a printer set up with natty?
why do you keep referring to the "classic session" as a solution? It's another session entirely ... and it's not the future, or what is meant to be the future, of Ubuntu ... so as I see it what needs to be focused on is Unity and NOT the previous stuff ... but we should not be removing features or usability from the previous sessions either ...
whitelisted
verifying some ubuntu documentation ohsix
if you try to minimize a program (such as xchat, for example) it vanishes completely.  the only way to get it back is to open another instance of the program, and kill the inaccessible process from the system monitor
how do u whitelist?
it's also not the past, they are concurrent
minimize to system tray, I mean
ohsix, I see...as a developer do I need to get things whitelisted in order to make them appear in the system tray now..?
"Boot Error" - "DISK BOOT FAILURE INSERT SYSTEM DISK AND PRESS ENTER"
you get a launcher icon for unity. and certain apps are allowed to place icons/info in the top bar (like the system indicators) .. and thats it
ohsix, are you on natty?
well ... on one level, perhaps ... but in Ubuntu it is obvious that Unity is the future
you are making an argument for no change at all, unity would be useless if that were the case, if you do not want something different, use what is familiar
who in this channel switch back to good old gnome2 classic panels from unity?
guys
Unity is now!
hi everyone
wow.... I have downloaded 11.04 havt not yet DNR but really so much backlashing at each other in the room .... I hope things calm down later on tonight.  I remember the good old days where you only got command line at boot
how likely is the new ubuntu update to brick my machine
don't be stupid, unity is a plugin for compiz
its 44 megs
what the fcuk
fermisan, you can never "brick" a computer really unless hardware fails
i know
fermisan, very slim chance but do back up
not likely if you are careful about your gfx drivers
snopp
+1 ^
meh its still beta
that's ridiculous .... change is not the issue ... as long as it's ADDING to the whole experience and NOT removing
fermisan, I upgraded fine
theres an article on the wiki about it, basically if it fits the aesthetic/function standards it will be whitelisted
fermisan, it isn't beta
Captainkrtek, sure you can... bad bios flash
it isn't?
Sylphid, that as well
its finished?
fermisan, yes
fermisan, nope it was released today
follow that thread, you keep adding and not removing, what do you get?
idk guys
fermisan, check the homepage
is 11.4 any good
i feel like it is a android copy
fermisan, it's pretty good, still getting used to it
sometimes removal is better for the greater good, i dislike iOS but i admire the "unity" of the overall interface across apps (pun intended)
>getting used to
fermisan, it all depends...I personally like unity, others despise it
you know what I mean ... adding but not removing key features or usability
anyone not have troubles with 11.04, upgrade go smooth as silk?
well you convinced me not to use it
the useful moves are removing old things you thought you were wed to; then you get a completely new experience and get to decide if it's sufficient
is the old interface still avalible
Unity is decent if you're on a single screen with somewhat low resolution
i hate the new look
fermisan, I come from gnome, unity is a bit different in terms of how im used to using ubuntu
fermisan, yes
there is no panel; the panel did all the things you desire, full stop
I dont think it handles dual displays well enough yet
how do i get it
my upgrade 10.10->11.04 was fine :)
If you have two screens, the top menu and launcher bar becomes terrible
nutsfornatty, you have a printer installed in natty?
test unity for a week, make sure to use keyboard shortcuts and try to think of the OS in terms of full screen apps.
fermisan, just choose "ubuntu classic" when you log in
Tbh
well having a menu which makes me have to make more clicks to get to an app than before is NOT sufficient ...
Gnome 3 works much better than Unity imo
zetheroo...just use the super key
not many people use multiple monitors, you should see about communicating how it can be improved
The problem I had was that Xinerama doesn't seem to work in Unity
then you use what is
what's the "super key"?
does anyone have a printer installed in Natty?
Hey everyone.  I'm running 10.10 on a wubi install.  Has anyone reported success updating a wubi install from 10.10 to 11.04?
Eathuz, is the usb device plugged into a front or rear port?
how does that go?
not yet, i have an hp wireless laser printer. going to be troublesome getting that to work
TerryBook, the WIndows key
So I'm using Twinview, but full-sceen apps don't work so well
Sylphid, thanks for trying to help. I gave up and spent 10 minutes trying to find an empty CD. Found one and it's booting fine. I guess USB booting is simply out of the question
The general problem is that application switching has turned really inconvenient
hi, how can i upgrade from 10.04 to 11.04?
haha ... and your back to that ;)
zetheroo, it brings up a menu which you can seatch from
And I hate how they copied the mac menu
It's terrible
nutsfornatty, verifying the ubuntu-doc for the printing setup
ahh, ok
through 10.10, and it will be a bit slow at the moment
nice, thats tough though, the proprietary drivers only do xinerama; and they fake it, and only because the drivers don't do xrandr 1.2+
WOrks on a netbook, but on a full desktop, it just fails
it seems
Sylphid, tried both, no improvement. But it doesn't matter anyway. Thanks for taking your time :)
yeah ... that is kinda what I have been talking about ...
I'm unable to pin apps to the Launcher in unity, anyone else having this problem?
and since 10.04 is LTS it will only show LTS's by default
joepa, how come?
What's the name of the default theme for 11.04/
Ambiance
app switching is easy, i use 8 virtual windows and win+s  or win+w
will updating a wubi install of 10.10 to 11.04 work?
Eathuz, no problem... sorry i couldnt help, though it may be a bios bug you may want to try updating, i cant think of any other reason if it worked fine on another box
ohsix, when playing games in Fullscreen, I get a fullscreen across two 16:9 screens, which isn't so pretty
:D
It's ok if you're using keyboard
api1996, it should do
I right click, choose "Keep in Launcher," logout, log back in, and it's gone
is it normal for the upgrade download to take forever?
But I'm not really doing it much, so
But with a mouse, it's a big hassle
thank nvidia :D
when does 10.10 stop being supported?
am I missing something?
if anyone has a printer installed in Natty please please PM me
thanks monotoko
see that is well and all if you know the app your looking for ... although it still involves typing .. more work than before again ... but say you want to look at all your apps in a category ... ... it is not as quick as before
what OS do you find is easier for app switching?
you could try the nouveau driver, it does xrandr
Sylphid, I agree. I'll try that later on. It's rather late here, so didn't think that far :)
It worked great in Gnome 2 with a panel with a task switcher on each screen
pylix, 2 years of support if i remember correctly
ohsix, aye
okay thanks
Gnome 3 also works very nice out of the box for switching apps on multiple screens
not as quick for your trained behaviour, someone with different experience will have different circumstance
I hope it does Geforce 210 well
joepa...that should work...is it a new install or did you update? and zetheroo, I like to use my mouse as little as possible, find it slows me down
update is still slow as fuck
update
from 10.10
<Sexygurl2furl> is it normal for the upgrade download to take forever?
Unity  feels like it's designed without taking high resolutions or multiple screens into account at all
hectic ;)
d/l the iso now, what can I expect?
unity not improve workflow, it's only eye-candy...
i see your point. perhaps a few indicators for windows and window switching that can be customized would improve the mouse workflow
joepa, sounds like a permissions issue to me...not quite sure which file it will be though
can somebody pls help me?????
The solution is pretty easy raelly
*really
joepa, try to make a new account and see if it does the same
One launcher per screen
true, hence why not accommodate both behaviours!?
thats not far from the truth; you know netbook sales swamp notebook sales right? and notebooks beat desktop sales
good idea
But the Unity people seem to have a religious issue with that thought
Avoid following your questions with a trail of "Please, help me", "Can nobody help me?", "I really need this!", and so on. This just contributes to making the channel unreadable. If you are not answered, ask again later; but see also !repeat and !attitude
I know, but
Can two computers on the same network have the _same_ mac address ?
!repeat
Package nspluginwrapper is not configured yet." any suggestions please?
hi guys,,in booting 10.4 LTS on Mac Ibook G4,,but installer stops in the keyboard option,,,i try many times and keep doing the same,,what can i do ?
!attitude
no
If you're designing a desktop environment for general use across all form factors, then you need to make it scalable
you are one person, introduce a third with different experience from the first, accomodate all 3?
pylix, sorry was wrong 1.5 years
 no.  MAC address is hardcoded into the network card
not unless u tell them to
anyhow ... it's going to be ok ... just make me change my computing habits ... yet again :P
take that to the possible number of all possible linuxusers
The Unity team seem like they just ignored scaling at all, and then at the end of the design process realized that someone might be running two screens
zetheroo, you should be used to it within a few days :P
okies the problem is with encryption with the alternative 64bit 11.04 install, works fine with raid and no encrypted drives :(
anybody have an idea how to get around no DHCPOFFERS received?
No I'm going to be setting the mac address manually (through some or other methods online).
to upgrade from 10.04 to 11.04, do i have to upgrade to 10.10 at first?
Anyone using Banshee 2.0?
My ISP's login client is locked to a mac address!
im sure someone will expand upon the basic unity configuration options. till then, we still have classic ubuntu as an option
thats just to say, the important thing is you are advocating your preference, which is fine but not objective, and as stated already would lead to no change
Yeah
look mate, there is nothing new or crazy about making your bleeding main menu customisable ... nothing new about that at all ... it's nothing complex either ... so it should be in here ... period
I'm sticking to Gnome 2
not sure how that will work, how will each machine know what packets are designated for it?
It just works better for my needs
hi, excuse me...
could someone propose which filesystem is best to use for casper-rw patition on a slow usb-stick?
 sounds like your ISP has problems and you need to complain to them.  but MAC addresses need to be unique even moreso than IP addresses
Ubuntu 11.04 has probably enumerated the drives differently for some reason... so /dev/sda1 could become /deb/sdb1
Use UUID's in fstab instead
hmm...
is ath9k a proprietary driver?
it's not about new, or being complex
ye, true.
I just wish the Gnome team wouldn't have been so stubborn in regards to app indicators in Gnome 3
it's about nobody freshly introduced to it, needing to do it at all
I'd have been sold on Gnome 3 with appindicators
how do I do that? I dont have write access to anythng, even as root
crazed]psyc, I believe so
you can set both computers to use the same mac, so long as only one is online at a time
Is there a FOSS replacement for ath9k?
i like the indicator change. far too many apps put needless icons in the task bars
Yeah
entity, reboot in single-user mode
It's about time someone tackled it
single-user mode?
then get a router that allows you to set its mac address
i think a whitelist would have been a good start
that's rubbish ... your saying that someone new to Ubuntu who uses Unity as their first desktop is not going to want to customise anything? rubbish
entity, hold on I have a command that will let you have write access again
Just a shame the Gnome team suffers from not-invented-here syndrome
check out madwifi
you forget your a-priori information you carry from gnome
I do have that in place. But this ISP's login client won't be able to fetch that mac address anyway!
they will probably not even think about it
 hi guys,,in booting 10.4 LTS on Mac Ibook G4,,but installer stops in the keyboard option,,,i try many times and keep doing the same,,what can i do ?
why is shuttleworth such a faggot
When you get the boot menu.
on the bright side, we are only going to gain customization options for unity from here forward
I work with new Ubuntu users all the time ... I know what they go for right away ... they want to customise!!!
You can also open multiple windows by clicking with the middle mouse button on the launcher icon.
my mom uses classic but she doesn't know or care that she can change things
could someone propose which filesystem is best to use for casper-rw partition on a slow usb-stick?
Remount read-write.
the stuff in the paste i sent you occur directly after selecting the top ubuntu entry in the boot menu.
I thought the problem is that / will not mount at all...
I want to backup my system, how do I tell it to place the backup.tgz file on an external HDD? I'm newish.
My launcher and taskbar are missing, I can't use keyboard shortcuts liek alt-tab, and I can't resize or move any windows. Also, windows don't have borders... What do I do?
entity, do you only have one hard drive?
you still have a special case; if you weren't arguing for your preference already it might even be notable
This is Ubuntu 11.04 beta 2
yes.
well your mom is one person ...and she is your mom ... I am talking about the new generation of computer-savvy people ... which far outnumber the rest
Hi, my internet/browser on ubuntu 10.04 has been acting weird for the past couple of days. When I click on a link on google search, it would redirect me to google.com. Sometimes clicking a link on a webpage would redirect me to twitter. And sometimes it would give me a google 404 error. I cannot think of anything that might have caused this and this happens randomly. Any help?
people aren't computer saavy, they're merely more familiar with some concepts
Hi, I just switched to Natty today and I've noticed that when I switch between viewports/workspaces in Classic, my docks and my panels all move instead of just my windows, like they did in Maverick. How can I change this?
really computer savvy people dont want to waste time on customization. they want it to just work imo.
 I am arguing for what I can see others are going to want ... based on having been putting newbies to Linux for over 5 years ...
entity, run fdisk -l
on the manual recovery
see what it says
you find that the concepts change and you find some saavishy confused people
the new generation are more computer savvy than my mom ... that is what I was referring to
you are arguing for you, you want it,  you are saying you see other people want it to give you some sort of credit for having asked for it
commodore64th, I had the same problem you have to run the window manager in a terminal, I just can't remember the name of it right now.
tartar sauce.
yes, and some concepts don't change ... like the basic ones :P
entity,  if you need to edit the fstab to be correct, all you need to do is boot from liveCD and edit it
like i said, "computer saavy" is an empty statement
where can I get the correct french/french 105k euro layout. All layouts available are false
ok.  this is ticking me off.  is there a way to revert to a previous version without completely reinstalling?
What happened is I was trying to change some settings in compiz-fonfig, then it disappeared all of a sudden.
TerryBook, what's pissing you off?
rebooting doesn't help.
the UI?
maybe I disabled it by accident?
people aren't car saavy, they can just understand pedals and a wheel after some instruction,  you change the pedals or the wheel, they'll want what they know back
well I see your speaking from your vast experience of having put your mom onto Linux ...so who am I to question THAT!? :D
go to login screen -> look at bottom panel -> change "ubuntu" to "ubuntu classic" -> login -> done
 no, I'm in gnome.  certain programs I use on a daily basis are now crashing every time I switch window focus
TerryBook, did you upgrade or reinstall?
upgrade
metacity --replace &
Hi, my firefox browser on ubuntu 10.04 has been acting weird for the past couple of days. When I click on a link on google search, it would redirect me to google.com. Sometimes clicking a link on a webpage would redirect me to twitter. And sometimes it would give me a google 404 error. I cannot think of anything that might have caused this and this happens randomly. Any help?
vast experience of people inflatingt themselves into "people" and insisting their not arguing poorly for their own ends, but the "peoples", you are deluding yourself
TerryBook, that could be the issue...first thing I'd do is create a new account
commodore64th, it's called metacity run that in a terminal, and it should all reappear
Chubcorp, thanks; I'll try that.
If your root partition wasn't mounted you wouldn't be able to read /etc/fstab
fucking wrecked french keyboard layout can not get the sharp symbol anymore
Quick question, I was upgrading from Maverick to Narry, and my city went throught a complete blackout, now whenever I try to boot my ubuntu box it says the Hard drive is not ready or no present, I can keep waiting or Press S to skip mount and M to manual recovery, what should I do.
Narry*
so anybody else trying encrypting all their drives with 11.04?
Chubcorp, lol. I beat you to it, but he gave you the credit. drats! :P
Or anything else, for that matter.
yep ... as are you ;)
middle clicking on links?
talntid, haha, winner!
Ah, I use the wrong nick, to tell him. darn autocomplete let me down! ahh!!!
 the program I'm having trouble with isn't installed system-wide, it's in my home directory
middle clicking?
Why is #ubuntu+1 invite-only, and may I please be invited? I would like to ask some questions about the next release.
your speaking for change without thinking of basic common sense ... like customisation ... that is hardly change for the better!
i'm me, and my persona experience with my mother,i'm not oresuming to speak for untold numbers of people that happen to agree with what i'm trying to have done
install chrome or chromium from the software center and see if your url clicks work properly there
Slimcea_boy, you'll need to be patient...they'll reopen in a week or two
using the middle mouse button
common sense is a red herring, often used as a cudgel; like "you don't think like me"
I want to install Ubuntu on a partition of a harddrive I already "prepared" or rather made it already. Where should I install the bootloader? Should this be on the W7 partition?
if they do, something screwed up your firefox install.. or like the others mentioned.. you are middle clicking
where is the sharp symbol on the new fr layout?
my links works some times on google chrome when it doesn't on firefox
commodore64th, did it work?
is that the scroll wheel?
Chubcorp, yeah, but I still need my launcher...
yes
and taskbar
make sure you are not shifting focus between multiple firefox tabs by accident
!french
Ce canal est en anglais uniquement. Si vous avez besoin d'aide ou voulez discuter en francais, merci de rejoindre #ubuntu-fr, ou #ubuntu-qc. Merci.
nobody has said it was change for the better, and without time nobody will know, it is merely different
commodore64th, on the task bar?
ok, well I gtg ... work and that ... good luck with all that ;)
my taskbar is missing and my launcher is missing
i'm fine thanks
how can I fix it on firefox?
Good night everyone. Quick question, I was upgrading from Maverick to Natty, and my city went throught a complete blackout, now whenever I try to boot my ubuntu box it says the Hard drive is not ready or no present, I can keep waiting or Press S to skip mount and M to manual recovery, what should I do.
yeah ... sure
commodore64th, just add new panel and add everything, that's all I can think of to do.
as long as the gui doesn't cramp my FPS-game playing ways, i'll be fine with 11.04
first I need to know if you are using the scroll button to click on links, else my suggestion is meaningless
even post gnome-shell i'll be using the panels & nautilus, so i really couldn't care less
unfortunately the panel or something like it is make or break for me
I want to backup my system, how do I tell it to place the backup.tgz file on an external HDD? I'm newish.
When installing Ubuntu, which partition type should I use? And since I'm dual booting it with W7, should I install the boot loader on the same drive as the W7 boot loader?
I'm not using my scroll button to click on links
the pages you are accessing when you click on urls, are they pages you have already seen? or are they new pages? (wondering if you are toggling your history urls by accident )
how do you tell what? you should try deja-dup, it's nice; and will start missed backups when you plug the backup volume back in
Chubcorp, mount the external hard drive. if it's already mounted, find out where by typing "mount" - then, just specify it's mount location when backing up.
wat
Question, 11.04 is out, since it has a new gui, should i reformate or just upgrade?
how would you use dpkg to show where the contents of a package were installed? I'm trying to find out what all get's installed with ldap-utils, and where.
sometimes they are pages that i have already visited.
commodore64th, did that work?
talntid, it didn
t
dpkg -L packagename
what did it do/not do?
deja dup is awesome
Use blkid to find UUID.
upgrades work, unity is like .001% of all of the gnome situation on natty; just use the classic session if you wish
unknown option -recorsive-unset
recursive, not recorsive
whoops
ok got the UUID of the partitions
eh the type should be Linux, the bootloader files go on the linux partition, but you can install the bootloader to the first disk
Ok... thanks for the heads up ohsix
actually, I did spell it right in the terminal
cool, that did it, thanks man.
you're welcome.
i'd check what extensions you're using, anything outside of firefox isn't going to do that
if you have compiz settings you want to migrate you will probably have to do it manually
okay so I got the UUID for the partitions. What do I do with that?
BTW, talntid, I'm using Ubuntu 11.04
since it's been updated to .9, and theres a migration thing but it misses about everything
try gconftool-2
also make sure you are not accidentally hitting your keyboard keys as you mouse click
I have a netbook, pretty normal setup (though i use desktop edition because unity sucks in 10.10)
have to reboot...
Replace /dev/sda2 with UUID=... in /etc/fstab
Make sure it's the right partition!
does gconftool-2 run in GUI mode?
is there a way to do full disc encryption with natty desktop?  I saw the option in server install, but not desktop
well they ditched mutter & made it a compiz plugin so it works a lot differently
ugh
its not doing it now since it is usually random.. Sometimes it would give me a google 404 error. This problem would happen on google chrome also if i paste the link there.
?
delete "/dev/sda2"? and replace with "UUID=<big string
F. accidently hit enter
yes but you have to use the alternative installer
just use deja-dup; don't mess with stuff in the terminal
ah, ty
you can only setup encrypted home directories via the gui installer
And could you paste /proc/mounts as well?
I have a lucid server setup and serving html, I also am serving videos. The problem (can play videos in linux, but not windows.) The error is (missing plugin) I have searched all over, but could not find a plugin to play the videos in windows. Please point me in the right direction. I am a newb to ubuntu server.
sure. could you paste what they SHOULD look like afterward?
have you assured physical security and taken into account all the other things you need to do to make encrypting everything even remotely worthwhile?
in the upgrade, will my wireless networking/WPA password need to be reentered?
theres a few pages about it on the ubuntu i think, its not too hard to setup but can be a bit of a hassle
Yeah.
nope
it's for my laptop
hypetech, haven't been able to get full disk encryption working with natty
encrypting everything is a bad idea, you ensure all the things stored in there are as either equally in need of securing, or equally worthless
hangs after grub
is 15 gb enough to partition /   ??
if you just want to be cool and tell people stuff is encrypted i'd seriously advise against it
should be
Good night everyone. Quick question, I was upgrading from Maverick to Natty, and my city went throught a complete blackout, now whenever I try to boot my ubuntu box it says the Hard drive is not ready or no present, I can keep waiting or Press S to skip mount and M to manual recovery, what should I do.
segregate what is actually important to secure & assure its phsyical security
imo theres nothing wrong with total hdd encryption at all
How do I take control of my home folder on an ubuntu install while on live cd ? I want to back it up to an archive
there is lots wrong with it
oh great.  it doesn't crash in unity....but every time I switch window focus away from it in gnome it crashes
hey whats up, how does everyone enjoy 11.04?
tase - try backintime, it's in repos
I only got 60 gb total, so i dedicated 15 gb for / ...  is it sufficient ?
like i said, you make everything asuseless or everything needing the same security measures, there is no halfway, and there is a lot that can happen that renders the encryption moot
that doesn't really help if I delete sensitive information without encrypting it
Whats the best way to upgrade to the latest version of ubuntu please? I tried but it says cannot get release notes?
that's plenty
anyone know how to lock down docks/panels when switching between viewports/workspaces in natty? In Maverick, just my windows moved
lnfr4nk7 - think it's a love/hate relationship
uh isn't there a way to take ownership of the folder, I dont want to backup my ubuntu install, just this one folder; ive tried chmod and chown, and it doesn't work out
an enitely encrypted drive is no better than an entirely unencrypted drive most of the time
ohsix, how do you figure that?
how do I get to growl in unity?
even 10G will be enough
15GB should be plenty. I don't recall seeing a / partition ever go over 10GB...
in the case of a powered off laptop, full disc encryption is essentially fullproof in case of theft, which is my main concern
that doesn't help either, you had sensitive information on plain storage; that is already a mistake
sudo chown -R folder name.name  ?
hi all - i am after some help?
Don't get him started :D
stefg, Loshki  ok thx
skulltip lol yeah i agree ... i rather stick with 10.10 ... been playing with Gnome 3 a bit too
does anyone know how to start the unity panel service?
When I am on filesystem A I cant copy files from filesystem B (no permissions). When I boot into filesystem B I cant even SEE filesystem A. 10.04
a token on your person with your encrypted information is 100% no fault in case of theft and _more_
of you are ok with the performance hit, full encryption is ok
[dlp], fair enough, been awake for 30 hours myself :P
set a decent password and enable the encrypted home option, that should keep most people out
`if they have access to  you and your token themn they have access to the ecrypted volumes
Good night everyone. Quick question, I was upgrading from Maverick to Natty, and my city went throught a complete blackout, now whenever I try to boot my ubuntu box it says the Hard drive is not ready or no present, I can keep waiting or Press S to skip mount and M to manual recovery, what should I do??
you would be better suited using truecrypt to encrypt only what you absolutely must protect imo
hi. after i log in to my system, i get only the desktop background picture, and i can move the mouse, but the buttons don't do anything
how do you get help here?
ok with Unity in 11.04?
how to deal with this? it was working fine for quite a while up until now
just ask :-)
by just asking your question
Please don't ask to ask a question, simply ask the question (all on ONE line and in the channel, so that others can read and follow it easily). If anyone knows the answer they will most likely reply. :-)
kyle__,  just ask a quiestion..
how do you measure "most people"? you know most thefts are from people  you already know, and they might even know your password already
You're in an awkward position.
oh wow just a flood bot in here?
How come I cannot upgrade to 10.10 from 10.04. In my update manager it does not show any updates after I clicked on "check".
ohsix:if you would like to discuss security with me do it in offtopic or ##security, not here
how awkward is awkward?
oh, actually, this is with either lucid or maverick
hi
since 10.04 only shows other LTS's by default, but yeah there isn't one
Depends when the power failed
ok, i think this is an old one but i am trying to run 11.04 from usb, i have got further than in the past - but it still wont work!
you can change the setting so it will show 10.10 as well, then go through that to 11.04
here is a security risk for you:
?DCC SEND "hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh" 0 0 0
I'm trying to recompile network-manager, how can I do so?
oh, does anyone know how to disable the floating scrollbars in 11.04?
NOTICE - The above was an exploit attempt that may have disconnected some users. Please ignore it, or type « /msg ubottu exploit » for more information.
i'd ask that you keep your baseless statements there as well. then
wth?
clean install or?
hello, I'd like to record a pronounciation from google translate. how can I record it?
anyways, the only way i can get around it is to change the session to "xterm" instead of gnome.
how do I change the setting to show 10.10?
decide what is important, separate it, secure it
usb booting was bugged during the betas. not sure if it has been fixed, wabi was also bugged for windows
HI there, the link to download the 11.04 Netbook version (Torrent) is broken
 I don't really know, I was at the mall, and I only knew of the blackout because the entire more went out of light too. when I left home it had just started downloading the 1615 files it needed.
ah yes thsi channel and the attacks!
What is the best way to install Gnome3/Gnome-Shell on 11.04? Is it to start with Kubuntu so as not to get into conflicts with Gnome2/Unity?
please dont harass volunteers, recommending encrypted home and setting a good password is a perfectly acceptable recommendation
we'll have to agree to disagree in this particular instance, but I do appreciate your input :)
much like a gun without a lock won't be protected by your front door if it can just be kicked in
the PPA for gnome shell crashes Unity, true, so Kubuntu could be nice
look around for  the setting I guess
how do I access growl?
You could probably recover the filesystem but the software will likely be in an inconsistent state.
also trying to upgrade to 10.10 and such now would be slow
probably
it says google chrome 32 bit does not match my amd64 system and won't install
clean install -- just a couple of days ago.
well at least i got it to boot from USB but seemed to hang on purple screen, beta 2 worked fine, updated itself and booted me into unity, cannot do it with fnal version
 fresh install is my best way out?
hmm maybe give 11.04 a try, or some other distro :D
blinking cursor after grub on new 11.04 (installed with alternative usb), what can I do?
I would, probably.
Thank you.
Use a liveCD to do a backup first (if you haven't already).
how can I record some audio that is already playing on my system?
ok you awnt Gnome Shell :)
talntid, gconftool-2 didn't work...
it is not, unless you tell people they can lose access to their information if it is damaged or they forget their passphrase as well; or that i t essentially can't be changed without recreating the volume, there is a _lot_ with suggesting people ust encrypt everything with no regard to why, it is not free and often doesn't get them what they actually want either
want
oh. i've used ubuntu -- installed off of the very same disk -- without problems for about half a year now.
you don't quite get the proper expereince with the Gnome 3 ppa, but if it works for you, should be good enough for now I guess
 that really sucks, I was halfway through my final project.. oh wait, I just started using ubuntu as my main OS, never remember about live CD's [/freakoutmode]
blinking cursor after grub on new 11.04 (installed with alternative usb), what can I do?
when people enable the encrypted home they get a big warning about just that and how to recover their data in case of problems
i simply tried reinstalling -- worked fine until about the 4-th reboot, and now the "gnome" sessions won't work
but using the PPA will crash Unity, so one should be careful with it
does it tell them about changing their authentication information?
,but you  will probably have issues trying to load up Unity if you install it, like KNUBBIG is pointing out
Hm. Maybe I will wait a few days - 'till the dust settles :)
 just one side question, what's the right swap size?
hi all
There's no simple answer to that.
will break is more correct x)
password rotation is going to do a lot more good with casual intrusions than an encrypted volume will, the volume will be mounted the entire lifetime of the machine being on, you can't unmount it
no that's it now, 11.04 will only get security updates now
if you dont want to use unity its safe to install the gnome 3 ppa
just upgraded to ubuntu 11.04 on my desktop and now after i choose the os in Grub there is a blank screen and no disk activity...
so, based on this, i'm sure it's a relatively trivial problem, but i'm not sure with what.
please help me
if you want to hibernate, at least 2/3rds the ram you have
How much RAM you got?
Please don't ask to ask a question, simply ask the question (all on ONE line and in the channel, so that others can read and follow it easily). If anyone knows the answer they will most likely reply. :-)
he already did
ok sounds like the upgrade gone wrong on you
oh sorry
again i would like to suggest ##security or offtopic as the venue to continue this discussion
didn't see it
12GBs
no problem
if you havelike 16gb of ram you can use less, since it won't all be in use :D
The gnome3-team PPA will not be continuously updated?
yes they will keep it up to date, it seems
you cant make suppositions then not accept the answer & redirect
yes,seems so, but i have clue after reading few google results,
still around? got disconnected
Hi, I'm trying to access my NTFS RAID partition in 11.04. How do I get access into it from Ubuntu?
don't do that. you can be k-lines from freenode for it :)
if you plan on suspending your machine you need at least your ram size (plus some) . for the average modern machine (which rarely swaps) 1 G is usually enough
it is plainly bad advice
With that much RAM you don't really need swap unless you want to use hibernate.
did it work for you under 10.10?
for the 100% full proper Gnome 3 expereince, wait untill 11.10 when it Ubuntu uses Gnome Shell,  or use another dsitro that has full Gnome 3 by default, but like I said if the ppa works for you, should be good enough for now really
I have NVidia card and when i press the auto set button on the monitor, it say set a lower resolution
pong
Yes, it did work under 10.10.
 it's a lapop so yeah, hibernating is helpful.
Or you're running something insanely memory-hungry.
laptop*
when Ubuntu uses Gnome 3 on the backend, I mean above, I typed wrong thing
partition to be sda1
i always suggest at least 512m even if you have lots of ram;if only because there are pages in the vm that need never exist in memory in most cases & would just waste ram
nor should you specifically change the numbers around (you'll confuse windows)
while i'm browsing... suddenly appear if i want to upgrade! so i did!  lets see what will happen next!
 * MC8 bashes the update manager
I usually suggest some as well.
K
why am i getting permission denied when trying to create an archive I files I own
KU
hello
My machine has 3GB RAM, and used swap is almost always 0.
hi
also even memory hungry programs vary their access patterns, so theres no real rule of thumb, aside from hibernating :]
KNUBBIG,  sebsebseb , any ideas please ??
clean install Ubuntu I guess
Does 11.04 ubuntu version have a lot of bugs?
mine is 3g, swap is usually 1-4g in use
Ok. Seems I need a test computer for Gnome-Shell on 11.04. Can't risk using it as the primary OS currently I guess :)
I'm still not sure if I should download it.
or maybe simpalley  Grub is pointing to the wrong partition
my working set is huge though, i really should get more ram
so I guess 4GB swap is more than enough? for my 12GB machine that is
haha.... 4hrs to upgrade  :)
If Linux runs out of memory it will kill a random process.
i have air conditioner tell me that it "Estimated Yearly Operating Cost is $208.  is that mean i turn my AC on 24/7 for the whole summer and cost only $208?
hmmm, let me check if this is the case
That is, when all RAM + swap space has been used.
it's not random but it's close; and you can turn off overcommit
(if it's a real concern)
#ubuntu is the Ubuntu support channel, for all Ubuntu-related support questions. Please use #ubuntu-offtopic for other topics (though our !guidelines apply there too). Thanks!
in which case malloc() will fail instead.
well, mmap
how can I record some audio that is already playing on my system?
:D
theres a middleground option too, for some overcommit
 rebooting now with a live 11.04 usb stick. going to do a fresh install :(
easy way out
i'd make my swap at elast half with that much memory
kinda disappointed to see same login interface and wallpaper :x
that way a failed hibernate is less likely to sneak up on you
does anyone know how to completely remove wifi drivers in ubuntu 10.10?
(which SUCKS, unless you like a hot bag & really hot laptop)
any1 instantly knows how to disable join/quit messages in irssi?
I'm having a super weird problem.  I think it may have something to do with my networking settings.  I can scp, rsync, and git push / pull anything 1406 bytes or smaller, but once i hit that cap, i get a timeout...like it sends the first packet and poops out or something.  Is anyone willing to help me troubleshoot?
I never use hibernate.
/window level -joins -parts
Only suspend.
thanks
hybrid suspend wakes up the laptop for a hibernate after a while, or when the battery gets to 3%
I'm having problems trying to get into my NTFS RAID partition under 11.04, when it worked under 10.10. Any ideas on how to do this?
which is why, practically speaking; i use hibernate a lot
Interesting.
you probably have to install dmraid, rebuild your ramfs & reboot
oh how i dislike problems with grub.. *sighs* So i did the install to 11.04 from 10.10, and now grub is dropping me to a repair command line, do i need to get a 11.04 live cd to fix it? or can i fix it in my 10.10 live cd?
I don't use suspend much either. I don't think my laptop has ever gone into hibernation that way.
wow that wasn't annoying.
is grub doing it or is it a busybox prompt?
What?
I kept getting sent to #ubuntu-read-to
what's a busybox prompt? lol
i rely on keeping my work around heavily, like months of suspends & a few hibernates
sebsebseb, fdisk -l shows that the sda6 is the linux partition and pressing e on the boot menu item shows like this, set root='(hd0,msdos6)' is that ok ?
if it doesn't say busybox don't worry about it
ou can probably fix it from the lice CD if you are able to chroot into the installed system
ok, then i guess it's not that.
does anyone know what the default window manager for natty is?
unity
yeah, just that grub got updated with 11.04, so i'm thinking there may be version problems
compiz with the unity plugin
unity
I don't really know about configuring Grub 2 that much,  you may be better off re installing with 11.04, yep a clean install
do you know how I can reset my compiz settings to their default values?
mordof, can you get grub menu? (SHIFT after bios loading and before grub - then recovery)
the _window manager_ is compiz
Using compiz with multiple monitors, is there a way I can rotate them independently?
swap should be primary or logical?
<Sexygurl2furl> does anybody know the command to get java on ubuntu
?
grub tries to pop up - but fails to bring up the selectable menu
i would have done a clean install already but i have many programs installed and dont have to do all the reinstallation, i have to finish projec work.
it drops me to a grup repair commandline thing
mmjunaid, thats correct
not really, the workspaces are for allmonitors
Resource temporarily unavailable
so it's seeing Grub is there, but can't continue
mordof, did you try that sequence?
Sexygurl2furl, sudo apt-get install java
which java?
can you mount the installed system on the Live CD environment?
you can probably get by with sticking some apps in all workspaces though
im booting on a mac ibook g4
join #ubuntu
no, but i thought it was essentially the same thing, since i've tried it in the past
I  need the web plugin
yeah
and the latest java
you would still have to re install the programs though
check the java website out
so where have you mounted it?
mordof, probably not. try and say something after that
and the worst is that my wife also uses the same pc with a mulitseat and now she also cant work :(
mmjunaid, thats the old 10.10 syntax though, it is changed slightly in 11.04
i'm not sure i understand - grub was working perfectly before the update, i changed nothing
alright, i'll be back
right, and neither of you may like the Unity interface much that is in 11.04
brb
go to login screen -> look at bottom panel -> change "ubuntu" to "ubuntu classic" -> login -> done
hi, I'm installing natty and I have a problem with grub2 and lvm
for example
mordof, don't do anything you are not sure... just go to the recovery menu and cameback here
cool upgrade is taking about 3 hours to complete :@ that will be 5 am here ...
can i somehow specify the device resolution at kerrnel boot line ? when i press the e key?
Resource temporarily unavailable
KNUBBIG, it depends on your inter-speed ;)
it is an encrypted disk and grub2 can't probe a disk for my lvm root partition
cai manually mount a disk on terminal /
already downloaded, install is taking 3 hours
KNUBBIG, did you upgrade before the distro upgrade?
Autodetection of a filesystem of "/dev/mapper/my-lvm-root-partition" failed
heres one of those special cases thatneed intervention, you want to help him? :D
yes
ping, help _stev_
KNUBBIG, so you have loads of things installed :)
mgison
Who?
how do I get my write rights back to do that?
seems true :p ~1900 packages to upgrade :D
KNUBBIG, not too much .. :0
]
\\\\
\
Try mount -o remount,rw /dev/sda2 /
than it's just my 5400 rpm hdd I think (+ 1.8 ghz dualcore)
?
KNUBBIG, let it go, don't interrupt or you might get screwed
hi guys, im new to ubuntu, and I need some help please
yes I'm afraid of that, probably will just leave it running while sleeping :)
what in the world
bastidrazor, it seems you have a kb problem. just hit ALT+F4
cat problem
lol
what's the problem?
lol
is anyone farmiliar with blacklisting drivers and would be able to help?
I don't want to be asked to enter my keyring password everytime to enable the wireless, but the option is faded
blacklisting drivers on what?
like when I log back in, the "automatically unlock..." option is faded and cant be set
anybody used the upgrade feature to 11.04 from 10.10 in udpate manager?
it returned my prompt.
KNUBBIG, yes. hopefully you don't have any pop-up prompts in meanwhile
i am trying to uninstall my current wifi driver
Good.
so that i can install a new driver with ndiswrap
anyone know how to fix/enable this?
sweet write rights are back. thanks
I'll freak out if I get up and it still says 2h to go, do you want to do that and that ;D
oh different drivers, was thinking video
Be careful.
do you have ubuntu log you in without a password? if you do, it won't unlock the keyring for you automatically, and you'll get the joy of unlocking it for just about every access
KNUBBIG, just sleep well and don't have bad dreams about the end of the world :p
kbrosnan:from what i understand i need to blacklist the current wifi driver and uninstall the module
whew! deleting my compiz settings fixed all my worries.
oh but it probably will do as some config files etc from grub got modified :@
Need help with fixing this wireless problem after upgrading to 11.04. I can't view wireless connections using nm-applet, the drivers seem to be installed and the interface is up. Any suggestions?
'grub_env_export'.  grub rescue>
ohsix, yes ubuntu logs me in automatically everytime. so theres no way to have both then?
you're probably having the same problem i am currently having
Is it better to use the new config file, for example for GRUB, than my 'old', modified one?
tamer:have you tried connecting with wicd?
same as if i didn't hit shift (kept hitting to make sure it was getting the right time)
mordof, so you do really need the help of a live cd/usb
I'll try, thanks :)
nowherefast, nope, what do you mean?
*nods* but my question is, does it have to be 11.04 live, or can i use the 10.10 live i'm on currently?
but in this case in particular you can bypass the problem by setting "Available for all users" in the connection properties, it will make it a system connection and store the password somewhere else, and as a bonus it'll come up way before you log in :]
that's how i'm here now is the 10.10 live cd
type sudo apt-get install wicd
then open it and try to connect to a network
Resource temporarily unavailable
mordof, sure because most of the system is now 11.04, isn't?
how can i deal with that erroe ?
um, don't tell people to install wicd
indeed.
edited the file.
does the live cd come with the capabilities to burn a cd?
still get the error
 * mordof wonders how that would go with only one drive
You reboote3d?
ok, if anyone cares grub2 has a problem with lvm volumes with dashes, anyone knows how I can rename an lvm logical volume?
it has worked for me in the past
what wifi chip do you have? it sounds like you've gotten some awesomely bad advice
mordof, go easy with that. in meanwhile backup your /home /etc and /usr dirs
yeah
what type of file system is that?
i have intel 3945abg
Um. Ok. That's weird.
Is it better to use the new 11.04 config file, for example for GRUB, than my 'old', modified one?
ohsix, thank you, I found the option, let me test by rebooting
im booting on a mac ibook g4
no reason to keep repeating it, if theres a problem with networkmanager it should be fixed
mordof, yes, you could burn cd/s with it
I'm just gonna reinstall maverick from CD and then try again.
i honestly have no idea
how i have the same problem using 10.10 on an eee
are you using natty?
because I dont have a Natty CD
o.o is it really that big an issue to need to back those up?
racks his brains
KNUBBIG, depends on what kinds of mods you made
i cant format neither
ohsix:no
how the hell do I set my old desktop back
i forget the name but its 10.10
I have a moderate problem with a network upgrade from 10.10 to 11.04
Ubuntu 11.04 GUI sucks!
colour + background changes, but other configs eg samba are somewhat more modified
what problems are you having with the "current" drivers
#ubuntu-offtopic
i can view networks but i cannot connect to them
this is a help channel
KNUBBIG, i would just diff the two and take the parts you want
okay, thanks
mordof, yes because you are having problems accessing the system. with a live cd you could access the partitions and backup what's necessary.
You could run fsck on the drive, *DO NOT DO THIS IF THE FS IS MOUNTED READ-WRITE*
ohsix:i was able to connect one time, but it dropped
ohsic, it worked!
KNUBBIG, i think the biggest difference is that you can say sda instead of hd0
How can i know a disk filesystem ?
i am not sure what driver i am currently using
well it's a very windowsy thing to suggest to remove/reinstall drivers; the often have nothing to do with it
im bootin 10.4 LTS live ppc
I'm still having trouble trying to access my NTFS raid under 11.04 I have looked at my packages and it seems that dmraid is already there. There are references to the RAID, but nothing useful.
Does anybody know how to force quit an upgrade I can't see?
I'm not gonna risk it, I'm just gonna do clean install.
okay, thank you
KNUBBIG, don't play with grub while upgrading... go to sleep :p
ohsix, so no one can help with the manus ? to get the old gnome look back ?
never force anything you don't know how to fix manually
sudo fdisk -l
:D and then I'll wake up and my grub is destroyed *fears* :D
pick the classic session on the login screen
you can select the ubuntu classic environment at the login prompt
lol, no
ive exhausted all other options
ohsix, thanks :)
thanks
that should give you the old look
you're welcome.
Yeah, well my upgrade to 10.10 stopped last night at 74% because my HDD spun down on my netbook. I can't do anything right now upgrade wise.
If you've got a backup the risk is limited.
if you scan manually with dmraid does it find the volumes?
)
argh.. now i can't access my 1TB drive for some reason :\
And if you don't then a clean install is riskier.
How do you do that?
why would that stop it, is it defective?
KNUBBIG, SHIFT before loading ubuntu and just hit 'update grub' on the recovery menu, just in case
thanks a lot
KNUBBIG, but don't worry about that now.
"man dmraid" or dmraid --help in a terminal
it says /dev/hdc1  Apple partition map Apple
I have no idea. I waited 10 minutes for it to continue with installation, and I didn't see a thing move. Any suggestions? I've tried to upgrade to 11.04 but I can't because it says it is still running, which it is not.
how so? If I wipe the partiton clean (because I backed up my stuff before even doing this) and then clean install on the partition...?
well, remove all the changes you made trying to solve the problem for one
ohsix, I don't have an option to change the session type ...
dmraid seems to be for software RAIDs, I have a hardware one.
I don't worry that much I think, it should all go well (says the optimist)
so it's likely a hfs+ partition...
My built in mic isnt working with ubuntu. Any ideas?
can i format a disk on terminal
so what were you saying before? i have access to the filesystem
KNUBBIG, hehehe
Then breaking your filesystem with a bad fsck is worth trying.
all I want is to get the old menus look and remove the side bar
JaymesKeller, have you loaded the correct modules for your raid controller
sudo
ugh this is annoying
what controller?
yes it says that
Because it won't take as long as a fresh install.
Yes
thats already done
click on your name first, it's at the bottom
 It is an nvidia raid controller.
And the chances are it won't break your filesystem.
okay so my computer is off. I'm gonna turn it on, it produces that error, I press M, then what?
then it is not hardware
mkfs
how sure are you that it is?
ohsix, when I click on my name I get loged in automatically
:(
I'd prefer not to do a clean install if that is what you are thinking. I don't have anything to back up my data with.
my 1TB drive is only accessible from user 1000 - i don't really want to change the permissions, otherwise it'll mess it up for my mount point once grub is fixed. can i temporarily get access to it somehow?
cat /proc/mounts
My built in mic isnt working with ubuntu. Any ideas?
alien-007:sudo mkdir /media/foo; sudo mount -t hfsplus /dev/foo /media/foo
ok now what
mordof, su to user with uid 1000
i am not but all files that were edited were changed and i think reboot will change the modprobes
!lts
LTS means Long Term Support. LTS versions of Ubuntu will be supported for 3 years on the desktop, and 5 years on the server. The current LTS version of Ubuntu is !Lucid (Lucid Lynx 10.04)
ok
mordof, or root
ah fine
mordof, a hint... the directories i told you, select Compress from nautilus. it would be easier that way to backup.
hi guys! does the official natty installer supports full disk encryption or should i use the alternate installer image?
 I thought it was hardware-based. Not sure why it would be software based, but still, dmraid finds them. So the next step is to get it mounted.
i don't need to worry about that, i just want to get access to my other hard drive
then fsck /dev/device-by-uuid/...
mordof, 1000 is by default the first non-root user on the system
there are logs generated during the install, you could look at those
mordof, after repairing or anytime?
Ok, how do I do that?
I am assuming the fs is mounted read-only. It's very important that it is.
open a terminal then look in /var/log/dist-upgrade/
JaymesKeller, its "soft-raid" you can read lots of cursing about that online
err nevermind that
my /home is on a seperate partition to begin with, and i can move /usr and /etc to different partitions as well
i'll do that after this is repaired
o_O uhhh ok? ha
if you can mount the file system you can chroot to it. this makes it possible to reinstall grub from within the chroot'ed system
from what i have read besides driver issue it could be a bluetooth issue (solved using rfkill) application issue (wicd vs network manager) or id issue (not displaying in iwconfig) and its not so i must assume its a driver or driver conflict
for installs theres a different location & i don't remember it offhand
mordof, oh, ok then
i have beta2 installed. but today, i have no updates. what might be wrong. i tried a couple different mirrors. all are the same.
what are the dots oh and it IS IN READ-WRITE
you should read dmesg
well trying wicd instead of networkmanager doesn't tell you anything
ah, right.. 20 mins until my live 11.04 is done since it seems 10.10 is kinda risky
I've got a quick question about the installer for 11.04, 64bit, off of a live USB. The partition editor doesn't seem to be able to set user specified mount points. Am I missing something or was this feature removed?
Are you sure?
If you install a development version of Ubuntu Natty and keep up with package updates, then you will be upgraded to the official release of 11.04 when it comes out. To make sure, type « sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade » in a console.
^^^
wicd gets less eyes, i trust it a lot less than n-m
not to worry, I have not executed any commands besides cat
What packages might I need to install to get a built in mic working?
try and connect with n-m, then grep -i networkman /var/log/syslog
system monitor says my CPU(s) are running at 100% after i install 11.04, but the processes show 4-10% load. What's using up the rest?
Ziber, its part of alsa
fsck will print a big fat warning anyway
Ziber, is this the same problem from 2 days ago?
it's very noisy about what it does, if you can't figure it out paste the output to a pastebin
so how do I mount in readonly
and what would i be looking for in there?
I hope I'm on the right track here. I have found that mdarray knows that my RAID exists, but now I want to mount it. Would mdadm be needed? Or something else?
If you just rebooted, you should be read only already.
try running something like htop in a terminal, it shows more information
are ubuntu's servers going unusually slow today?
I just tried to nano a txt file and it didnt warn me about no write privs
sudo mkdir /media/foo; sudo mount -t hfsplus /dev/foo /media/foo worked for me,,thanks a lot buddy ;)
Yes
Does anybody know where to check the upgrade logs? not finding anything on google.
not unusual for a release day.
What did the cat say?
ideas why? my mirror seemed to crawl
release day?
And what error did you get this time?
thanks, the meat and potatos seem to be associating -> disconnected
oh just kidding i'm in readonly
JaymesKeller, is mdarray part of mdadm or dmraid (they are different)
11.04 came out today.
oh.
hm... this new gnome thing... how do you move the panels or config anything? None of the shortcuts include gnome configuration utilities XD
11.04 was relased today. Or yesterday depending on your timezone
figures :P
you could find a closer/faster mirror
it gives the reason as 0
the cat said meow. no seriously, it looks the same as last time
erik333, in unity you don't thats the whole idea :)
often there's hints in this why you can't access a filesystem
i guess i'll just wait for any more questions until i get on the 11.04 live cd
everything mounts fine, i can access the file systems
what is the unity project called?
indeed, you know those cards have problems with wmm/qos/power saving and some other things, do you have them enabled on your router?
this is a grub problem..
so this is a good time to switch to a tiling wm then i guess
I meant dmarray. It has found my RAID, so 11.04 knows it exists.
ayatana?
a grub configuration problem at that, because grub is still accessible
Now I need to know how to get it mounted.
Ubuntu bug 769043 in ubiquity (Ubuntu) "Cannot manually specify a mount point in the manual partitoner" [High,Fix committed]
Can you paste the line with /dev/disk/by-uuid on it?
Ew. first impression of Unity, it sucks :\ How can I completly remove it?
is your installed system mounted now?
JaymesKeller, dmarray would be part of dmraid not mdadm. i'm not familiar with device-mapper
was using awesome + gnome panel now to ease the transition, but that stopped working after upgrade
do i have power saving enabled on my router? i don't think so
use the classic desktop session, pick it on the login screen
kthnx back in a  minute
yeah it looks like it gets to stage 3 of 5 then disconnects
no way to uninstall it and have my comp running just like before the update?
yes
post the output to a pastebin please
is there a command to open the dash in unity 2D?
both my /home and my / are mounted at the moment
Cannot get the exclusive lock on the packaging backend.
Please close any other legacy packaging tools that may be open.
dmraid knows it's there. What command do I use to mount the array?
/dev/disk/by-uuid/87d334b4-9a16-4621-967a-5f74491dd9e4 / ext4 ro,relatime,barrier=1,data=ordered 0 0
so where is it mounted ( ls /media )
not if you installed it, theres a lot more than unity in play, just use the classic session
JaymesKeller, see man dmarray i don't know it
lol I will have my UUIDs memorized after tonight... :\
It's read only, you can fsck it.
are you running apt-get or synaptic, or aptitude or anything at the same time?
okay
I doubt it. Not to my knowledge.
fsck might still complain it's mounted, but just ignore it.
it is under /media/166 GB Filesystem
what's the whole fsck command
 I never had the chance to choose not to install it
mount understands UUID=<uuid> for the volume name, no need to use that path
Sorry; ha not to my knowledge
fsck /dev/disk/by-uuid/87d334b4-9a16-4621-967a-5f74491dd9e4
JaymesKeller, and if it follows standard terminology you would assemble it and then mount a device /dev/dmarray1 or some such
nowherefast, worked, thanks! What's the problem with nm-applet anyways, any ideas?
ok 1 sec, theres a quick way to check
can anyone tell me how to get growl notifications in natty?
this is what I meant by forcing them to quit...
P
get a terminal and type 'ls /media'. i think the real mountpoint is some lenghty number dir in /media
fuser -v /var/lib/dpkg/lock
as always, that's the uuid of the drive
I did a sharink on two separate drives to make space fo Ubuntu..but the two Unallocated spaces are not contiguous, how do I achieve that ?
shrink*
/media/3d8dc5b8-b2d8-4172-ac62-7b27f327cb45
htop says the same. I add up all active processes and it's 13% cpu load. Htop says 100% on both cores, also. ??
as a rule i don't trouble myself with forums, but i'll make an exception this time; please use paste.ubuntu.com in the future
so cd to that dir
that did nothing.
Okay, does anyone know how to assemble and mount the software RAID array I have?
it says at the top where its's being used
I
Wow, that is easy.
I'm ssh -x ing into my ubuntu box
conical, and short
be sure to run it w/ "sudo htop" as by default it only shows your usere & no kernel threads
yeah, top process is Compiz at 7%
but can't open folders that requre root access
What happened?
 the only thing i can choose at the login is the user, nothing to choose unity or not is here. help?
normally i'd be prompted to enter my password
so, are there any advantages to the unity dektop thing? I'm trying really hard to think of one. It's like it was meant for tablet PC:s
ok i'll go sudo 1 sec
ah, can't - no root perms
hola Pici
howdy
choose the user, then look at the bottom
need to root into it, but i don't remember how :\
well yeah it was made for netbooks only to begin with
conical, you have put sudo in front of the command
and netbooks, they outsell notebooks, and notebooks desktops
clean, 449495/1525920 files 5429183 blocks (check after next mount)
yes, I know that, but it's in a shell
i mean
it's in the gui
ah, got it
ok then that message is wrong or not the real error
so a better question
conical, then gksudo
i'm rooted into it
Still just compiz at 7% in htop (sudo)
Then it should have mounted in the first place.
but it's not.
when you are at the root of the installed system you need to bind-mount /proc /sys and /dev, and then chroot into it
I find it useful if I need to use ssh -x to have it open a terminal (gnome-terminal maybe) first, and then run any other application I need from there.
I did a shrink on two separate drives to make space fo Ubuntu..but the two Unallocated spaces are not contiguous, how do I achieve that ?
the cpu usage bar at the top is one solid color?
ah, yeah - i found that in a post here to repair it
if you did not -bind-mount /dev it's useless
okay, is there a way to enable the gnome session to view the locked drives?
!md5sum
mount?
will this process work if i'm in 10.10 live?
!ati
useless
that is very old information, even if it was correct at the time, be careful
I think I like unity, how is everyone else taking it?
i'm worried it'll just revert grub to it's older version
do you think installing a new driver would solve the problem?
there we go, forgot where it was. thanks ubottu
you haven't identified a problem yet, just a symptom
how the heck do you get rid of the anoying left nave bar in unbuntu 11
aha! the shutoff buttton had a link to the config center... maybe there is hope for gnome yet - they knew exactly where people would look first when they started unity
hello I just installed 11.04 but my nvidia drivers is "currently not in used". I did reboot in a recovery console, purge nvidia-common and reinstall it but it still doesn't work. Any idea ?
what is the best gui backup tool for ubuntu?
the problem is i cannot connect to any wifi networks
conical, add them to /etc/fstab
is there a Kubuntu sub channel or other channel?
yes, solid white/teal, why?
#kubuntu :)
erik333, I take it your not liking unity?
conical, otherwise you have to get a daemon like gnome-disk-utility to handle hotplug events
Shanks!
ok yeah, and does Unity freeze on you as well?
because it shows 4 types of information, irqs and stuff
#kubuntu
yeah it's giving me the original error with / not being ready or present. I really think I'm just gonna clean install
good luck with kde guys D:
sebsebseb  not for the moment, but the fan is running at top speed all the time
Fair enough.
thanks, will try
have you tried the backports?
to connect Laserjet1018 to PC via Linksys+WUSB11+Wireless‑B ?
than fan issue is probably something else, hardware issue or whatever
I'm defeated.
I'm running Ubuntu Server 10.04, trying to install ffmpeg. I'm having nothing but problems. Currently, I'm trying to install nasm through apt and it's telling me it's not available.
Any ideas?
are you talking about sudo apt-get install linux-backports?
thank you very much for your time and help no matter. :D
if so no
altough I guess a quick test, could be to log out now,  get the log in screen, open up Ubuntu Classic Desktop, and see if the fan is ok then
hey everyone! How do you upgrade from the 11.04 alpha/beta releases to the final release?
well with the proper package name, but yes
sebsebseb I think because the lack of the driver the cpu is more used, so the fan speeds up
are you sure it's any wifi and not one particular router?
 and what card you got?
graphics
@eigba Not a lot, soz. Panels i can't move, huge icon shortcuts and no menu :( and the run command thingy covers 25% of the screen - a bit overkill on 27" screen XD
Hi, when I log (natty) there's no Skype notification icon, only an open space where it should have been. If I kill Skype and open it again the notification icon appears. Any idea why it's not there when I log in?
sebsebseb nvidia 8600 gts
there is no panel in unity
I don't know what that is. The color should tell me something?
ok and so the propritary driver it says isn't installed?  or it is installed, but not activated?
sebsebseb installed but not activated
How  to connect Laserjet1018 to PC via Linksys+WUSB11+Wireless‑B ? I saw something about a prism driver but how do I get it ?
i have tried with 3 networks on 3 diff routers and my eee has the same problem on 10.10
it is not displaying as i expected, if it were it would show whats doing it
yeah I had this kind of stuff with beta 2, but
Hi guys, is aptitude deprecated?
in my case Unity would freeze if the propritary driver was used, but if I removed the propritary driver and installed the experimental 3D driver, Unity would work
but your eee doesn't have an intel wifi chip, theres another problem
ok, any other utils or info dumps I can do to figure it out?
well there are some panel-like grey strips where panels normally might be... and they hold volume controls and clocks
so if you try the experimental 3D driver, things may work better for you
yea, it's only superficially similar
definately other problem
!pm > Quasi_
Quasi_, please see my private message
so changing your drivers would do what exactly?
If anyone have ugly boot after installing the non-free nvidia driver install startupmanager and set your resolution and color depth. after that it looks good.
ive read different drivers are different quality with many wifi cards in ubuntu
sebsebseb  how can I install it (I'm a noob sorry)
if its wireless g/n, make sure b interop is on even if you're not using b, disable wmm, disable wireless power savings
can i get my old gnome back im hating ubuntu 11.04
Hey guys I am trying to  upgrade from Ubuntu 11.04 Alpha/Beta to the final and it keeps saying "Not all updates can be installed" and to run a partial upgrade. Should I do this or is there some other way to make sure I upgrade to the final release.
for example the highly variable outcomes of madwifi vs ath9k vs ndis + windows in transfer speeds, etc
there aren't different drivers practically speaking, there is one, and less good options, like madwifi, vendor drivers or ndiswrapper
how do i disable power saving?
asteriskmonkey1, log into ubuntu classic instead. that's the old gnome deskto
separate concern, and the mainline one will be fixed some day
sebsebseb where can I get the experimental driver and how to install it ?
*desktop
I assume this is the same Beta 2 and the final, so  going by what I ddi with Beta 2.  got to remove the propritary driver,  in additional drivers yeah,  and then after you done that may have to re boot the computer first, but should then have an option for an experimental 3D driver showing that you can then install
ceed how do i do that?
you need to open your routers management pages, it has loads of options
sebsebseb thanks a lot for your help, will try that
and hold on
ah... yeah, disabled
asteriskmonkey1, log out, click on your name in gdm, then select classic from the meny on the bottom of the screen
and if you do this, and for some odd reason, you find that Unity is completly broken
ceed thanks
log into Ubuntu Classic Mode (no effects)  and install the propritary driver again I guess
from the log in screen
asteriskmonkey1, I wish they would of went with gnome3
eigba ,the more i read about the side bar i see that alot..
I have 2 Nvidia drivers (173 & current) Should I uninstall both ?
asteriskmonkey1, I also hated Unity initially. you should give it a chance at some point. it's pretty functional although a bit more limited than good 'ol gnome right now.
Unity didn't brake when I did what I am saying, it got it working for me, but something different may happen for you
if i wanted a mac id buy one
natty is out - is there a reason to not upgrade? how is unity doing? is it playing nicely?
dust-- seems variable
ceed i see how it could be good for a tabled or something but i do way to many things at once for this gui :P
Can't enter a custom mount point after selecting Edit for an existing partition from the live 11.04 desktop cd installer
dust--, Unity has played nice here the last couple of weeks. I like it
I'm currently upgrading my laptop from 10.04 -> 11.04 using the CD. It's been stuck on 'Restoring previously installed packages...' for about an hour with no progress. I didn't really have all that many additional packages beyond the base OS installed. What's my next move?
is unity working fine in vmware workstation?
asteriskmonkey1, I multitask quite heavily myself, but I've always liked out of the way desktop environments, and Unity seems to be one of those :)
i heard it needs 3d acceleration
Also, I really miss my bottom panel that had all my open apps on it, how do I do that in unity?
can I get focus follows mouse in unity?
shane4ubuntu you can try avant window navigator
or check out cairo dock
shane4ubuntu, no taskbar in Unity. You need to use the laucher or Alt-Tab. That's kinds Mac-ish, but works :)
Will ppa sources conflict with system upgrade?
 You mean I have to take my hand off my mouse???
META-W is also an option for changing windows.
shane4ubuntu, well. no. running apps are marked with an arrow on the side in the launcher, so you can restore apps from there
yes, but not generally; purging ppa's is nearly a must for upgrades
my side bar is sooo full, it is almost useless, it takes quite a bit of time to scroll down, and not all open apps show up there.
is there a way to reach the normal menu from unity?
anyone else getting ridiculously slow sleeps on the dist upgrade?
log out and select ubuntu classic as your session
if I have the Ubuntu 11 bootable disc.. isn't there ANY way for me to upgrade the 10.10 to it using it? I don't want to download all the packages all over again through the internet update
its terribly slow.. 5 hours remaining!
shane4ubuntu, if you feel you need a taskabar there's always classic! :)
any change?
yes i did that
New ubuntu user, 10.10, having issues with my built in mic... Anyone mind helping me?
(
yes, here
very slow update
good, I was making sure its not just me, sometimes my cable is slow as hell, and i reboot my modem, but i didnt want to do it in the middle of the dist upgrade if i didnt have to
do you know the command to ID a driver?
unfortunately it's down to what you don't know with ppas :\
and? is that not what you wanted?
how do i purge them?
I'm trying to give unity a try, but not very happy about it thus far, perhaps I will learn the tricks and like it.
lsmod
is there a command to turn off the display until a button is pressed or the mosue is moved?
how do you remotely log into your machine so you can view it over VNC?
ppa-purge ppa:that/youadded0itwith
if I cancel .. can I resume it later? (cause ive already downloaded 800 packages)
depends, if i want to set up the shortcuts - having the menu handy in some form would problably help?
Long as I can `echo "speakup_soft start=1" >> /etc/modules` and reboot and  thenhave  accessible access to the text console, I'll be happy with Ubuntu.
enable remote assistance
instyall a vnc service and make sure it is running, and then connect to it on whichever port you specify
New ubuntu user, 10.10, having issues with my built in mic... Anyone mind helping me?
Anybody had any problems with a fresh install of 11.04 booting up to the loading screen, then just resetting the system in a loop?
there is tightvnc and x11vnc
i am going to throw 9.04 as my wifi works out of the box on that release and see if it's using the same driver
it requires me to be logged in
to enable remote assitance
if that was it, why bother with ubuntu?
assistance
i dont know, im at 844 packages, and im in the same boat, ive seen it drop to as low as 2kbs
which i can do via ssh -x
what if i don't remember those names?
lol it was a problem with the upgrade package I was using. The Ubuntu Upgrade software is doing the job without a problem.
but then i'm viewing that session
at 22 kbps here
can you ssh to you machine and fire up a vnc service?
it is not letting me upgrade because it is finding some files that i installed elsewhere than ubuntu's repository, is there a way to find out what they are so i can remove them for force an install over them.
it might use the same name, but it wont be the same driver
!pulseuadio
is there a way to purge every ppa source?
i believe one is already running
on original Ubuntu gnome GUI now too
!pulseaudio
or at least
ahhh, good deal
when I sshed in
i started it through the gnome gui
ok, if there is a vnc service running, then connect to your machine with a vnc client!
hah! its showing iwl3945, notorious for problems
doobien, are you backed up
desktopcouch (= 0.2.93) but it is not going to be installed.
Yes you can
can what?
nit-wit - nope
ok, cleared some of the junk out of the side bar, and the apps are there, thanks!  I didn't realize they were in there.
look in /etc/apt/sources.list.d for the ppa entries, just get their names don't delete them; ppa-puge does downgrades & it needs them there
for getting skype, is it recommended to get the ubuntu varient, or just go for skype-static?
doobien, do you think you should be? what if you have a problem that is not fixable?
of course, but it's not just the driver; those chips are a pain too
I use skype static on my laptop (puppy linux) all the time and don't have any issues whatsoever.
what else could it be?
they won't work in windows unless you disable the thruoghput boosting thing for routers made in the last 6 years or so either, it's great
hi all ! guys after upgrade to 11.04, my radeon DRI on Xorg is broken. Anyone got a quick fix ?
what router do you have?
kernel 2.6.38-8
I use the skype from the ubuntu store
get skype from the partner repo & it'll get upgrades automatically
Ok, kinda silly question. Using ubuntu-server. I used to have a custom MOTD, but I don't remember how I did it. I upgraded to 11.04 and whenever I change /etc/motd the changes get wiped when I log in again. I don't want to use a third-party application just to change it once.
anyone having problem with keyboard and mouse?
apt-get -f install <packagename>
ok , im down to 10 kB/s
i have a cheap chinese made router
do someone know ?
what
/etc/issue?
P
I wanna switch from Debian to Ubuntu, and mostly use the text console.  If Ubuntu doesn't have the 2.6.38 kernel with speakup available, I'll be fine.
grep /etc for bits that you already see on logon :]
I wanna switch from Debian to Ubuntu, and mostly use the text console.  If Ubuntu doesn't have the 2.6.38 kernel with speakup available, I'll be fine.
i cant use my laptop keyboard on natty
should i black list the module, then use modprobe to remove the module, then i can use the ndiswrapper gui to install the windows driver? that sound about right?
issue is for what comes up before login right? good idea with the grep though. I'll get back to you in a sec
can anyone help me with this?
if you wanted to do that, but what are you going to do for your netbook? you need to find out what external problems there can be
hi
turning off all optional features of the router is a good start
when I install a php module via synaptics do I need to restart apache?
generally no
the chip is crap, but i am at peace with that. since the madwifi driver is made for atheros chipsets i plan on using that one since it has the best ratings on that chipset
gnite, wish me luck ;)
ohsix, php-gd
but with php caching things or fastcgi it can get weird
Hey, anyone have any experience getting ATI 57xx, 58xx, or 68xx video cards funning at peak performance? Are the drivers available for it up to snuff with Nvidia's yet?
Hey! Sorry if I'm interrupting another conversation, but anyone else having resolution issues with an acer al2216w monitor?
It's a 22" widescreen
if you're using the threaded mpm it might need a restart, i haven't messed with the new (as of 4 years ago lul) stuff in apache 2
the package likely modified php's configuration and if it's never reloaded during its normal lifecycle you might need to force it
I did that but it says that depends of another package. I keep tacking the dependencies, and when I finally find one that I can install, it says it will remove A LOT of apps!
hey are any of you guys good with printers?
best ratings? i have two atheros devices and the mac80211 drivers are great
Im having a headache setting mine up
if the problem is know it will end up in module backports as soon as it's available, picking an alternative only picks the worst possible compromise
Is there something better than wine?
if you want me to offer anything else i'll need to know something about the router
windows
okay, so having installed a vnc server, how do I start an x session running
be sure to report a bug if you find one
Hey, anyone have any experience getting ATI 57xx, 58xx, or 68xx video cards funning at peak performance? Are the drivers available for it up to snuff with Nvidia's yet?
wow downloading packages for instlaling 11.04 is epicly slow, 8kb/S
essentially, how do I log into my machine without connecting a keyboard to it
so I can use the vnc server
Is there something better than wine besides windows?
if you didn't already install ssh or some other remote access, you don't
I have ssh
i can even ssh -X in
likki play on linux
but I need a full session running
tase, proballythousands downloading it system is bogged
ohsix, a restart did the trick
it's a monoculture, what do you expect there to be a bunch of independent windows implementations so you can pick which one sucks the least? what is your actual problem
!upgrade > ardchoille
ardchoille, please see my private message
to do a couple things that a remote X session won't do well
wine with pulseaudio patch is good enough for me :P
thanks for the reply. what program do you recommend?
so, using ssh, how do I tell my computer to "log in"
locally
the program is called play on linux
they don't have enough engineers to fix sound problems and stuff; that's just reality, give them money or code if you need to
the router zxv10 w300 but i also have a repeater i use to test the wifi network with and both fail
 + FREE-SPACE-2
Howdy; when I try upgrading to 11.04 in the update manager, it tells me "Could not download release notes, please check your internet connection" owtte. How does one upgrade?
thanks for being helpful. that is what i was looking for :)
I want to make FREE-SPACE-1 larger and put Ubuntu onto that.
well you normally see a greeter, but since you're in with ssh, you need to start an x session manually, but even then that's probably not what you want, what are you trying to do?
the repeater is a tlwa500g
Good night.
a _repeater_, i see
Hi, just started using Ubuntu, I added an extra HD, its showing up fine, but its a mountable ejectable drive... I want it so apps can use it and what not. No programs can see it..
well take the repeater out of the equation, can you reach the router?
hello?
Please don't ask to ask a question, simply ask the question (all on ONE line and in the channel, so that others can read and follow it easily). If anyone knows the answer they will most likely reply. :-)
hi, I was just now upgrading to 11.04 but the installer crashed and there was a message telling me the system may have become unusable... is there something I should do? To prevent the system from not working anymore or anything. I confess I 'm a little bit scared right now.
ohsix I'm trying to access some features of gnome that don't work over an ssh -X connection
go on
so I need my computer to log in locally
Anyone here familiar with Java?
so I can use VNC
zachgretzinger, yes
not physically but i have admin axx via browser
need help with intel 845ge video on board only have one resolution how do i fix
How can I install my Lexmark x1150 printer in Ubuntu 11?
I work with java zachgretzinger
help! how do i move the unity toolbar to the bottom
i mean can your devices reasonably speak to it over wifi
Ever heard of Jsmooth?
so, using ssh, how do I tell the computer to log in locally so I can use vnc to access the local session
it got nothing...
i can use it in monitor mode perfectly fine
ia there a way to "resume" installation? or something I should do...
Question, is there any difference if I install a 64bit os in a 4GB RAM lap instead of 32bits?
it doesn't seem to want to work in managed mode though
motd is generated from other files, let me look real quick from where
Anyone know whether the upgrade is cached?
Aginor , romulobr - Do you guys know if there's a way to convert a .jar to a .deb?
How can I get my gnome battery applet to display my battery life. When I right click and click "estimating" and scroll down I see it there, why can't it just display
Well, if it doesn't have a 64-bit processor, it won't work. In addition, your video card may take up part of the addressing.
i think a reinstall would be faster than an upgrade.
dig /etc/update-motd.d/
Hey, anyone have any experience getting ATI 57xx, 58xx, or 68xx video cards funning at peak performance? Are the drivers available for it up to snuff with Nvidia's yet? Specifically, I'm aiming to get a 5770 or 5850
zachgretzinger, yes, but it is a bit involved and a jar and a deb isn't nearly similar things, so you can't do a straight off conversion
as long as you have a PAE enabled kernel (which the ubuntu server kernel is), it's fine to use 32 bit
how do i move the unity dock?
Can software raid-1 be setup after installing Ubuntu ?
You don't
taglass, :(
:S How did my grep command not find this :(
it sounds to me like what you're really asking is how you can run a jar file in ubuntu, is that correct?
it can be set up any time, what do you want to put on it?
sorry for wasting your time
zachgretzinger,  I don't think so man... a jar is nothing but a zip file with a special xml file inside, I don't know what deb's are, but I think they are more than just that.
the release name isn't part of the file
so, ohsix, any suggestions?
no waste :]
my data files + mysql databases mostly
what is the easiest way to tell what version of a package is installed?
can anyone help me with my keyboard and mouse problem in natty?
 * LAcan if anyone is experiences with KISMET please /msg LAcan . Thanks!
look in ccsm for the options of the unity plugin, last time looked you could pick the edge and whether it autohid
from the command line
i remember there is a backup tool often compared with rsync, having a name that also starts with r, but i've forgotten it.
are you using backtrack?
could anyone remind me?
Aginor , ahh, I see. Any links? jazzy , No I know how to run a .jar in Ubuntu. romulobr , all I need is the .deb to call the .jar to run it
rdiff-backup?
ohsix, ccsm?
you might look at duplicity / deja-dup (a ui for the former), it's great
apt-cache show packagename?
my keyboard works in tty console, but not in x
a deb is an installation package, not an executable program
thanks. that's it.
cancelled my update. And yes, it can be resumed later from that state itself.
compizconfig-settings-manager, it lets you edit the compiz settings, one of the plugins happens to be unity
what could be the problem?
ohsix, no ubuntu
i highly recommend duplicity even, if you're looking at using rdiff-backup; unless having the last available version available with its original name is a hard requirement
Aginor, thanks
join #natty
Anyone know whether the packages downloaded during the upgrade are cached?
you don't convert a jar to a deb, you package a jar, along with other things to run it, eg a shell script, inside a deb
yes
they are like all the other packages
if you want to cancel and resume later, you can.
to install the touch screen version of unity do i install ubuntu-desktop or ubuntu-netbook
i'm having trouble installing 11.04.  during the install it's saying that it cannot install a bootloader, so no grub installed.  I even tried installing it manually but the drive will not boot.  Anyone else experiencing this?
I just did a few seconds ago and it gave me the message saying so.
can someone help with intel 845ge i only have one resolution and it says monitor unknown when i check it in setting
i'm on kubuntu btw
jazzy, well do you have  a tutorial or a link then?
zachgretzinger, bear in mind that you'll probably have to do more things than to just put your .jar in a debian package
if you have a touchscreen you don't need a special version
ohsix, cmd not found :( ... i think i found it installed in software center though?
oh kubuntu, then you probably want ubuntu-desktop and to log in with the main session
ok about to install Natty, bbl :)
yep, the command is called ccsm, in the package compizconfig-settings-manager
Aginor, yeah I've given myself an 8 hour crash course in the art of .jar and .deb today and am realizing that it's pretty involved
Okay I'll try
Are they saved in /var/cache/apt/archives?
how do i open a txt file to edit as a root?
no clue where
no acceptable C compiler found in $PATH
why do you like it so much?
hey ! do someone know about radeon ?
DRI ?
help
insanely much faster
I'm not sure what I'm doing wrong. I'm installing a C compiler and it needs a c compiler? lol
zachgretzinger, the jars are pretty easy, doing debs are a bit more involved :D
Yes.
plus doing baackups every hour is fast enough to do it every hour :D
so then what should I do? I looked at the pre-req's and it said that i needed an ISO C90 compiler
I should RAID-1 only my data partitions right?
i take it that thats a c compiler?
zamN, are you trying to build the compiler from scratch instead of installing the packages?
Install the deb?
taglass, Thanks!
keeping data safe takes a lot more than just raid-n, i'm not really comfortable offering advice
Aginor , I tried creating a .deb package that called the .jar using "dpkg -b blahblah.deb" in terminal... It built the .deb but did not do what I needed it to. Either that or I'm just not used to Natty yet
!gcc
how do i open a txt file to edit as a root? /usr/share/empathy/empathy-chat-window.ui
!packages
i will say though, raid is useless without backups, so if you think it will help you avoid them, that's a common mistake
wish me luck... i will try to restart the system
Can anyone help me with my screen resolution? My monitor shows up as unknown and I can only use 800 x 600.
!packages
I've never configured software raid before, should I just install Natty on a partition first and then plan the raid part later?
Question, is there any difference if I install a 64bit os in a 4GB RAM lap instead of 32bits?
!help
Please don't ask to ask a question, simply ask the question (all on ONE line and in the channel, so that others can read and follow it easily). If anyone knows the answer they will most likely reply. :-)
no, im not looking at a substitute for backups
your just packing the jar file into a deb doing that
crashes instead.
you'll be able to access the full 4 GB with a 64 bit os.  You can't w/ a 32 bit os unless it supports PAE.
gogeta , that's all I'm trying to do... I want the .jar inside a .deb so I can trick Natty into thinking it's not running a .jar
does the laptop support 64 bit hardware?
!xyproblem
how do i add a mirror so that my downloads go faster? it's taking 20minutes just to download vim
So I'll just want to run sudo apt-get install build-essential and then I should have gcc on there?
umm thers no trick your thinking of a launcher
What do you really want to do?
zamba, yes, you might want to install automake too
zamba, sorry, mistabbed
bascily a script along with the jar file to make a menu shortcut and stuff
...
zamN, yes, you might want to install automake too
ohsix, i am in ccsm, do you recall the setting where it switches it
how do i open a txt file to edit as a root? /usr/share/empathy/empathy-chat-window.ui
sudo vi /usr/share/empathy/empathy-chat-window.ui
the big purple logo with Unity on it, that's the unity plugin
but i dont want to use vi, i dont understand it.
Open Terminal and type in gksudo gedit /usr/share/empathy/empathy-chat-window.ui
gogeta , exactly. All I want to do is to be able to change the icon of the .jar. The reason for this is because .jar packages cannot hold system icons. They have icons contained in the package. The .jar in question has a horrible icon and it looks atrotious in the Unity launcher
yes thats the one, thx Hello71
!xy
The XY problem is when you need to do X, and you think you can use Y to do X, so you ask about how to do Y, when what you really should do is state what your X problem is. There may be a Z solution that is even better than Y, but nobody can suggest it if X is never mentioned.
well you can make a sh script with any icons and use that script to start the jar
ohsix, oh haha, i opened that setting but missed it. thanks :D
hey Ubuntu
I have used a 64bits os before
Hey, anyone have any experience getting ATI 57xx, 58xx, or 68xx video cards funning at peak performance? Are the drivers available for it up to snuff with Nvidia's yet?
have a question...
i am using onboard intel hd2000 gfx with natty - glxgears numbers were very up and down though (23-60fps) when maximised...  any idea?
i tried to make a JAR in Ubuntu...gave me blank lines
like i typed in the correct information
Alright people where the hell is the menu in this natty unity thing. I'm wanting to find monitor properties configuration applet and keyboard preferences etc from sys>prefs like in maverick
then under it, it had these ">" carrots
what do i do after that?
soreau, click on the power button
click on the top left then type it in
The power button?
oh yea
glxgears is a terrible benchmark
Type what in?
soreau, top right
you can click the power button too, it offers a system settings entry
the unity ... thing... is a WIP i assume
taglass, should it run this slow tho in full screen?  surely it should be smooth?
Yes, totally
ohsix, its saying the new value for the edge binding for the action reveal mode conflicts with flip down of the desktop wall plugin..  then when i set to bottom it doesnt show up :S
nope relesed and total fail
could anyone answer my question?
how do i add a mirror so that my downloads go faster? it's taking 20minutes just to download vim
They shouldn't have even pushed it out this fast IMO
wip would mean its not defult
No it means that it's default and it sucks
but the numbers are probably capped at your vertical refresh rate.
when i run vi, ubuntu opens vim, then when i try vim it does not exist and  it proposes install vim, why vim command doesnt works?
Ubuntu is on a fixed 6-month release schedule.
Tell me something useful that I don't know
hehe why im sporting kde now
I typed in:
jar cmf program.mf program.jar *.class *.jar
Try vim.tiny.
vim-minimal is installed as vi I believe.
and it just gave me carrots with blank lines underneath
And Unity was not ready for this release.
JDK and JRE are properly installed
taglass, if i keep it at the default size, it hits 60fps consistently, as soon as i maximise it...  slows down, very variable - as low as 23fps
no idea there, i don't use unity
ohsix, ok thanks for the help any way :)
then ready for what release?
Try java -jar...
does anyone know about intel 845ge video on board i only have one resolution and it says unknown monitor and says 0 rrefresh rate any way is greatly appreciated
i would say turn off compiz but unity screws you there its forced
the netbook version had most of the ideas for unity already in it and used, except it as hacks with maximus and stuff
Woah, I asked it to include restricted extras during the install and it installed the old 173 NVIDIA driver and now I'm getting weird graphics glitches, anyone else?
hey everyone
Hello71, taglass, but when i type vi, console shows "VIM - Vi IMproved"
hello71, "java -jar" runs the jar
Well the one after they got it working with multiple monitors would be a good candidate
no idea then.
i am trying to create the jar
i need help, im desperate
the unity plugin for compiz does almost all the same stuff but it's not a hack
Please don't ask to ask a question, simply ask the question (all on ONE line and in the channel, so that others can read and follow it easily). If anyone knows the answer they will most likely reply. :-)
i'm installing ubuntu in my father'1s pc
it'sa stripped down version of vim
ok so
you might as well be the only one using multiple monitors, because a lot of people don't on netbooks
is it known bug that launcher sometimes "forgets" about running application?
taglass, hmm, ok
yes
ohsix I'm not using a netbook
ok
also testing versions have been available for a long time, you should have spoke up then
Its my work desktop I'm trying to use
i'm trying out the Nouveau drivers but can't seem to set a correct resolution
it's only using 1024x768
netbooks outsell notebooks outsell desktops
you are now
/join #nouveau
thanks
no problem
i'm installing ubuntu in my father's pc, (before i formated the old partition and resized windows one to take all the HD), and now i cant create a partition for ubuntu cause i cand resize the windows partition; besides i cand boot on windows cause i unnistaled grub
the edid information for your monitor is incorrect or unavailable, you'll have to add modes manually with xrandr
naa they fell off with the tablet market
yeah, I've managed to ssh into a working machine and brink up irssi. That's a huge win for linux on the desktop so far.
how do i change the mirrors for ubuntu? i'm only getting like 20kbps i need a more local server
desktops and labbys are still the biggest sellers
Why doesn't Alt+F2 work when metacity is running?
elsoja, do you have a recovery or install disc
I have an acer crystal eye webcam that's only working in black and white. It seemed to work before but now it doesn't. yes I'm sure that I have no effects on and the balances are all good
shrug, people are buying netbooks faster
just wanted to thank you again, and let you know it worked. have a good night
so use the classic session & what you're familiar with
great
edid
Go to "System",  "Administration", and "Software Sources" and choose "Other" from the drop down box. Then choose "select best server" and your system will choose the fastest mirror for you automatically.
elsoja make an extended partition its probably not letting you because you have to many primary if you have windows the recovery stuff usually takes 2 primary partitions
I'm running Ubuntu 11.04 with a netbook...
using 10.10
of windows, no
props for figuring out the .d thing, most people don't even look around
naa that was when they first came out its slowed down alot
yeah, think I'll have to.
is it possible to remove unity menu panel on second monitor?
being everyone owns one now heh
i don't have a gui yet, my synaptics isn't working
no don't think so
Upgraded my hp2133 notebook to Natty -- after about 2 minutes it hangs.  100% of the time.  Suggestions on debugging?
Why doesn't Alt+F2 work with metacity in 11.04?
(synaptics the laptop mouse driver)
hi everyone...using 11.04 with unity 3d...it's really cool :)
so i can't log in
there's no space for any partition, windows is taking all the hd[
test
thats most of what i see at the schools :D
soreau, if metacity is running unity 3d has crashed as it needs compiz
but still, large target, and cheaper machines with smaller screens are becoming more prevalent
yea tablets are takeing off
natty has a first class omap4 target this time around
That was not my question
Why doesn't Alt+F2 work with metacity in 11.04?
it's xp
elsoja, you can use gparted but the W7 disk manager is suggested
soreau, it does
iv seen a few omap on ebay the launch ones
it should
are you using metacity? long story short, the panel applet with the application/places/system menu on it does that
Why didn't you say that in the first place?
gparted cant rezise
You mean gnome-panel has to be running
ohsix, did I miss your answer?
sor or unity 2d
"unsable to read the contents of this filesystem"
*unable
Are there in ubuntu ways to just like in Windows 7 show my load on the processor and memory?
hi all, I'm having a power issue. i've got ubuntu installed on an Asus G71X, and everytime I unplug it, ubuntu locks up. It works fine under windows so i'm guessing it's not a hardware issue. Any ideas for what I should try?
Yes you're right, thanks.
I can see the menu now too, whew
awesome, I disabled the unity plugin from about:config, now that's gone, but I've also go no gnome panels. How do I logout?
What a constricting piece of garbage unity is
to do what you want to do you need to use xvnc
cough kde
#ubuntu-offtopic
elsoja boot windows and shut it down properly maybe run a chkdsk on it sounds like te windows partition has not been unmounted cleanly
x11vnc, correct?
there are no panels in unity, just something that looks like one
soreau, unity 2d works fine
elsoja, boot a live Ubuntu cd and follow the next pastebin to install lilo it will boot XP.
just installed 11.04 trying to use the clearlooks theme..it works on many windows, but not on fire foxes windows?
Why doesn't apt-get / synaptic / updates / kpackagekit / whatever download and install things as soon as they're downloaded, unless they're dependent on another download that hasn't completed yet? It would be more efficient that way...
firefox does its  own ui
i cant boot windows
such as if you have a list of 20 things, it waits til they're all downloaded before installing them
clearlooks will apply to buttons and some things, but not overall
elsoja what about safe mode?
Does unity use notify-osd?
I'm on the Natty live cd right now.. it has detected my wifi right thought not sound or the dual monitors..
should I just go ahead and install it ?
because it extracts all of the package information to do an atomic application of the packages
where is my show desktop button in unity?
ohsix...can I change it some how on firefox?
neither
it's faster, and it needs all the packages to apply to do it
I believe the right drivers for graphic card, etc can be configured after installation ?
not in a manner that will probably get you what you want :\
"atomic application" ?
can i do this from a live cd?
elsoja have you fixed the boot record or tried installing grub?
done in one go, or not done at all
I'm experiencing extremely slow download speeds  (both wired and wireless). They're less that 1/4 the speed the same computer gets on Windows, where do I look for help?
oh six..just hoping to get the closing x on the right :)
installing 100 packages one a ta  time is different than installing them in one step
i coundt install grub
the repos are flodded so it may just be slowness of the internet
anyone know about intel graphic cards
Oh ok, thanks for the heads up.
what about them?
ohsix, so, a simpler question
How do you un-zoom? I somehow triggered the stupid accessability zoom function and can't get ou tof it lol
that'd be something your window decorator needs to be told to do; either from compiz or if it's metacity, in it's gconf settings
Can I use an desktop install iso so my upgrade doesn't have to go to network, or does that only work with the alternate CD?
elsoja dont look good then Im afraid :(
I have partitions that I could access just fine if I had mounted them using gnome
elsoja, read the paste from a live ubuntu cd open softwrae sorces, you may have to right click the menu to tick it on open the software sources 1st tab 2nd box universe click active let it reload and follow the commands..
I can't do it using a gnome session (i've tried)
remotely
only the alternate
Hold Super and rotate the mouse scroll wheel.
Tekk i have a 845 ge that only has one resolution and no monitor listed how do i fix
ok, can you point me at the instructions for doing this, I can't seem to find them :\
the livecd is cloned to the systen with a regular livecd, the alternate has packages on it
wrt my Natty hang on hp2133 notebook, it may be related to wireless.  Disabling wifi seems to stop it from hanging -- and severely limiting its usefulness...
orz, I thought I'd tried that. Thanks.
what wifi hw?
checking.
I have a question. What does Upgrading Ubuntu do?
Does unity use notify-osd? I am not getting any pop-ups
upgrades it :) define upgrading
it changes the release name and switches to that releases package versions
Broadcom BCM4311 a/b/g rev 02
Clicking Upgrade in the update manager
is there a way to get the right alt to change workspaces with a us international layout with dead keys ?
will there be an Ubuntu variant with GNOME, just like Kubuntu has KDE?
?
Gubuntu 11.11
enabling wifi, to see if that causes a hang
there is
just not a offical kindda like lubuntu isnt
PovAddict even if there isnt this is ?Linux you can do what you want with it if they never realease another gnome distro you can always install gnome
the lxde varent
yup Broadcom BCM4311 wifi borks natty on my notebook
I'd be happy with no hangs!
seems weird that GNOME is now less officially-supported than XFCE... :/
hello!
again this is Linux who cares about the gui :)
The default environment is gnome.. How is that less supported?
that's not gnome, that's unity
was that an upgrade or a new install? if the former it might like a firmware update
i have problem with fsck.btrfs
its unity bascily a relly relly bad ui
gnome is 99.99% of what makes ubuntu go
i installed ubuntu-desktop. After I restarted I selected ubuntu and all I saw was Icons and a background. Alt F2 didn't even work. Now I'm in ubuntu classic (no effect)
PovAddict, and classic is gnome
that uses gnome
Unity is simply the windowmanager.  When you use compiz insteda of metacity is it not still gnome?
unity is 0.001%, and it's a plugin for an alternate window manager, compiz
i can't see  my data in my partition ? any idea?
Compiz is the window manager, Unity is the shell, to be more precise.
even before they called it unity, ubuntu was modifying the hell out of gnome upstream
yes and the shell is everything
regardless of what the distro is released with you can always install whatever desktop you want and remove any you dont guys this aintgg windows
How do I reorder the close / minimize / maximize buttons in gconf-editor
If you look in the compiz website .. it's now going to be easier to port apps from mac windows and linux
the shell is still separate, but it does meld a few things; it's just a plugin for compiz
natty &  wifi works on my old hp nc6000 just fine.
the rest is just gtk
?
why would that be?
and metacity is  the window manager for unity 2d
no they weren't (modifying)
did you ever get those pastes?
Ooh I didn't know what ohsix
and not the hp elitebook 8530w which I think uses a similar broadcom.
in fact you can still go look at the patches ubuntu maintains outside of gnome and that they couldn't get upstream
in win 8 aero is going to be worked by compiz , i don't understand those technical terms though
dunno, chances are it's the bios or something; crashing problems are really lame
Ubuntu will be Gnome 2 with Unity; the inevitably Gubuntu will be Gnome 3 :P
dude, that was an April Fools joke
oh ok
got me
technically a hang ;-)
does anyone know why my memory may be pegging out, I have had issues lately with webpages freezing and it says the system may be out of memory, so i actually checked this time and cpu2 was maxed out at 100%?
you can still make ugly gtk apps
really lame that they crash for one, but also generally really lame as to the root cause
Linux is a shell the gui is just a frontend for the shell you can use any you want so why moan
any how
linux is a kernel, what you think of the shell is probably a getty on one of the virtual terminals
How do I get unity touch?
why did gnome and cannel decide to screw up gnome
oshix Im putting it in simple terms :)
remove unity and install gnome3 if you wish
Hi all, I install gnome3 on Ubuntu 11.04, how to remove "Windows key" from global binding? Since Alt+F1 same as "Windows key"
afaik there are no special steps, if unity 3d doesn't run on your device you can always try unity2d
okay, so question, I have unreal 2004 installed. When I create a launcher on my desktop to ut2004-bin it doesn't launch...nothing happens. However, if I open it from the ut2004/system dir the game will open...what am I doing wrong?
questions with no answers there
Thaks! :)
what?
why wouldn't it run ?
gnome shell and unity both sucking
ah, the nc6000 wifi is an Atheros.
you know gnome is a huge collection of software, the window manager and nautilus are small but important constituent parts
someboby knows about fsck.btrfs? i cant se my data in my disk after update to 11.04
So I had a lot of trouble with my audio working in ubuntu 10.10, now I'm trying to get my built in mic on my toshiba laptop to work. Is there a group I should be added to for this to work?
that's your opinion, and it doesn't bear repeating; go talk to them about how you think you can improve them
ah, ath9k? i have an ath5k too and it works great
gogeta I have no idea Im not an Ubuntu user Im a red hat admin ,  I just happened to pop in here yesterday and found the people where nice
fork gnome 2 problem fixed
Has anyone noticed that with the new scrollbars you can't click on, for instance, the bottom half of the scrollbar when the scroller is at the top anymore? because no scroller appears down there when you mouse over
Anybody know how to remove "windows key" from gnome3?
know this might sounds like a bad one but.. in order to change the name of a grp all i do is edit /etc/group and rename the group?
Atheros AR5001X+, which is working fine.
why do you need to? do you even know what the terms you're using are?
Or how to customize keyshort in Gnome3, any tool?
is there a way to get proprietary drivers on my toshiba on board graphics to get graphics working all cool liuke
why wouldn't unity 3d run on my computer? I don't have agraphics card and starcraft II runs perfectly in 3d mode
i tested different drivers on the netbook (eee) and the ath9k driver works in ubuntu 9.04 but not in 10.10... weird huh
upon update to 11.04 i can't get desktop cube working. every time i try to start it, it breaks the gnome window manager
gnome3 is a deprecation and migration effort largely centered around gtk and the libraries nearly always used alongside it
becouse gnome 3 droped metacity and are using gnome shell
 my corp laptop may use broadcom, not upgrading that until natty is out a bit longer
there is also gnome-shell
no they didn't
okay, so question, I have unreal 2004 installed. When I create a launcher on my desktop to ut2004-bin it doesn't launch...nothing happens. However, if I open it from the ut2004/system dir the game will open...what am I doing wrong?
im using 11.04 btw
how do you use your second monitor in a dual monitor setup with unity? when I move windows to edge of one screen, they maximize in the middle of the screen :S
dunno if that's weird, i do know there was a firmware transition in that timeframe
Don't OT me when I'm talking about unity
well i dont care anyways its just gonna spell doom for gtk
it is offtopic, we support it, we don't care what you think about it
why wouldn't unity 3d run on my computer? I don't have agraphics card and starcraft II runs perfectly in 3d mode
you don't know what you are talking about, at all
You don't support unity here??
you think that
gtk is a library software uses, it's not going anywhere
The default wm scheme in ubuntu 11.04?
if you need a gui so bad why use Linux?
OchoZero9, what video card do you have?
i know that, you are making statements and i am reading them
So I had a lot of trouble with my audio working in ubuntu 10.10, now I'm trying to get my built in mic on my toshiba laptop to work. Is there a group I should be added to for this to work?
"unity sucks" is not a support question
ok someone please help me here. I'm on the install screen. I want to dual boot Ubuntu with Windows 7.. I created an ext4 partition and picked it during installation. Now what do I pick for "Device for booter loader installation?"
I didn't say it sucked
I don't have any
gtk is part of the gnome ui and if people dump gnome in mass due to unity and gnome shell everyone will start uing anything else
I said it was a constricting piece of garbage
I think it's built in the processor
yea just like everyone did last time, quality matters
I'm in 11.04 with unity off, and when i try to start desktop cube from compiz, my window manager dies and nothing works.
can anyone help me with the memory issue?
Soothsayer, your hard drive
 I think it's built in the processor
acully they did when kde whent downhill and gnome got good
is 11.04 LTS?
As a support helper, you should ask why one thinks that and try to help them with the specific problem they're having
i need a hand with something
isn't that awesome, i've had a hell of a time with compiz .9 too
I have two hard drives now.
same for e17
!lts
LTS means Long Term Support. LTS versions of Ubuntu will be supported for 3 years on the desktop, and 5 years on the server. The current LTS version of Ubuntu is !Lucid (Lucid Lynx 10.04)
By saying "#ubuntu-offtopic" that
ohsix, haven't solved the problem?
i have been around longer then you think
you are thinking of a past that didn't exist
To be fair most of the peopel I've seen that said they were leaving gnome were going to xfce... Guess what toolkit that uses? :)
By saying "#ubuntu-offtopic" that's just like saying you know it is just that
how do you do the recovary off an instalation disk?
one is the one with Windows 7 and where I also plan to install Ubuntu OS... the other is for data only.
or even xfree
admittance
oh, it may not be supported. maybe find out what name/model of it is
do you remember qpl?
Andrew I know what LTS is thanks I asked if 11.04 is
and you remember how it was a joke that e17 was never finished
ChronicSyncope, if your in classic that may not use compiz but metacity
no it's not
ohsix, how do i at least restart the wm?
12.04 is the next LTS
Soothsayer, the install will add windows 7 to grub boot menu
how do you do the recovary off an instalation disk?
Does 32-bit desktop edition of Ubuntu 10.04 have Qt libraries installed by default? I can only find references that netbook edition has.
how do you do the recovary off an instalation disk?
they all had there high  useage times
robin0800, classic always used to use compiz...
have you tried kde 4.6
it should have already, but eh, you could try alt+f2 and typing in compiz --replace
how do you do the recovary off an instalation disk?
Andrew and Fly thanks
yes pretty nice
good thing it's not a poll huh
ok so im picking the "hard drive" which has Windows 7.. and NOT any partition under it.
right?
how do you do the recovary off an instalation disk?
Soothsayer, yes.
how do you do the recovary off an instalation disk?
ohsix, nope... still nothing.
/dev/sdb ATA ST... (500.1 GB)
it still does. I've got ccsm installed and was mucking around with the settings last night. after removing unity that is
was gonna say if you're unhappy with unity & gnome 3, kde 4.6 is better than gnome 2.32
18:30 < soreau> What a constricting piece of garbage unity is
Soothsayer, this is for the boot loader right?
Flynsarmy, I'm using classic, so unity should be off... hopefully
yes
#ubuntu-offtopic is for those statements if you would like to keep making them, particularly the adjective is useless to anyone in here
using it on my netbook
lawl
a7ndrew thanks, any bug link i can follow up?
Soothsayer, then yes. you'll see what i mean when you reboot after the install.
oh you've shown your cards then, you really do not know anything and merely believe you're above the fray
can't help you with the cube thing - i don't use it. just wanted to mention that compiz seems to work fine - was tweeking madly to get things working/looking right and nothing seemed to break
ok.
it just shows a simple text menu after with ubuntu or windows 7 (loader)
What adjective?
someboby knows about fsck.btrfs? i cant se my data in my disk after update to 11.04
Flynsarmy, i don't even have cube turned on, i just can't get my wm to re-appear
what hat my netbook runs kde plasma
rxvt-256color.
that
i quoted you, i trust that you know what an adjective is
ohsix soreau gogeta please move the meta discussion to #ubuntu-offtopic
You're not taking the correct action. You're shrugging off unity support
thats after i ripped out unity
What kind of btrfs setup did you have before?
kinda need a hand here
>.>
good question, there's got to be something on Launchpad
i am not, what can i do to help you with a constricting piece of garbage? i think there's not much i can do! if you had forme dit as a question i could have said something
What is hapening with fsck currently?
i have graphics and wireless drivers installed. will i lose them when i upgrade?
so much non-support talk :(
you thanked me last time i answered a question you actually asked
what abought btrfs?
one more confusing. I'm picking the ext4 partition which I made a few minutes earlier using gparted. Do I have to set the Mount point ?
arand_, i had /home before and now i cant see my data
!offtopic
#ubuntu is the Ubuntu support channel, for all Ubuntu-related support questions. Please use #ubuntu-offtopic for other topics (though our !guidelines apply there too). Thanks!
Please drop it.
rxvt-256color." Does anyone know how I can resolve this issue? I tried reinstalling urxvt but that did not help. Thanks for any help.
when i start to install ubuntu the opition to split the hd with windows do not appear, and i cant resize windows partition
i can't connect to windows network.
hello
congrats on the release
what error do you get?
arand_,  its problem from ubuntu 11.04 after update
Damn, i hate Gnome3 eat my "windows key"
soothsayer yes you need to set the mount pint as /
Right, and this home was created in maverick, and you have mad an install re-using /home, or just an in-place upgrade?
Soothsayer, yes, set the root (ubuntu install files) to  /  and i personally make a /home parition as well
anyone have any issues with broadcom wifi?..
ManateeLazyCat,  are you on gnome3  or ubuntu 11.04?
i did atpa8a
Andrey_BTI's prpoblem sounds like a samba issue
i can help you
can you rephrase that in the form of a question
I connect to winnetwork, go to workgroup, connect to server, then press BACK, and i didn't see anything
Gnome-shell with Ubuntu-11.04
Unity dual monitor bugs, pick your favourite! #5927116 #685179 #742020 #755357 #752612 #731322 #769650
ok, so I picked Ext4 File Journaling System and set the mount point as /
it dont matter what partition you have the mount point on the partition you have ubuntu installed has to be /
a7ndrew, lol
ManateeLazyCat,  ooo   ok...
not samba - first time i can see server, then a can't
when i start to install ubuntu the opition to split the hd with windows do not appear, and i cant resize windows partition. what can i do
Soothsayer, yes you must if your going to install on it
lol
yeah most likely mickster0. Andrey_BTI, can you connect to it successfully via direct IP?
is ubuntu 11.04 worth updateing too
it just doesn't work :P why? worked in 10.10
firtst mad update and after new install
but a can connect by VONNECT TO SERVER
ye, I want to keep all 'data' files on the other disk... so that means I should mount /home and /var onto the other disk?
Soothsayer, yup. you didnt delete your win 7 partition right?
which one is it? you probably need to install firmware
How should I be going about this.
arand_, firtst mad update and after new install
I binding so many "windows key shortcut" on Emacs, i hate Gnome3 binding "windows key", do you know any way to remove "windows key" ? Since I can use Alt+F1 too.
Do this "sudo mount /dev/sdXY /mnt -o defaults,subvolid=0"
Soothsayer, yes
:)
ManateeLazyCat,  not that I am aware of  no...
soothsayer they dont have to be on different disks just use different partitions
Andrey_BTI I actually had a similar issue and it ended up being a bug in nautilus. I'd make sure the workgroup is correct, the permissions on the share are correct, etc.
in 10.10 i could use the BCM driver
sdXY representing your /home btrfs partition.
well, I don't have any partitions.. but I have a lot of unallocated space on the other disk.
Even hacking way? I guess gnome developer must have some code do those?
If this is the *Official* suport channel, can I assume Canonical staff are on-line here? If so, how am I to distinguish between staff and "n00bz"?
in 11.04 you can too, but you should try the included drivers
trying fwcutter
could someone explain to me what pulseaudio is exactly?
we
they are not
And second time i try to connect to winnetwork - i can't see anything, nor a share folders, nor a server list
or they hard-coding it?
if they are they will not be here in that capacity
communty help no cannel
soothsayer there is no issues with puting them on another disk so yes go ahead
how do you mean "included"?
Ok, I'm trying to make an .iso image of a bootable dvd, and I'm using dd if=/dev/sr1 of=filename.iso and it keeps giving me an I/O error and copies 16kB...the drive is not mounted.  Any help please?
arand_, in sda3
how do we get special effects for unity?
have your rootfs on your main disk and make the mount point /
compiz
So /home and /var go to two separate partitions on another disk?
if it worked fine, you didn't change any settings and it suddenly stopped working, it may be the nautilus bug I encountered
shane4ubuntu, install ccsm
arand_, i dont want to make it home again but only to see the data
because I could use other file managers and it worked fine
soothsayer yes totally no probs in doing that
Soothsayer, if thats what you want.
like before, just enable them through the appearance menu
Ok, if you mount that with th eoptions I gave, and look in /mnt, do you see your old data along with the new @home subvolume?
oh :) i don't care which ever way it works
Soothsayer, some people just make a  /  mount
/var is where MySQL, etc store the databases if I'm not mistaken ?
i have graphics and wireless drivers installed. will i lose them when i upgrade from 10.10 to 11.04?
I try connect third time and i recieve messages - i can't recieve shared folders. I install ubuntu 11 now, a didn't change anythings
so far neither method is working
Soothsayer, **shrugs***
?
ok, well in the fwcutter package theres a script that will install it for you
Dont use MySQL lol
?
ubuntu 11.04 shotwell does nothing when selected to open?
oh c'mon, thats unjustified...
brewster, it depends on the hardware
dpkg -L b43-fwcutter will list the files installed & the script's name will be in there
I just looked, and it isn't there mickster04, I guess I need to install compiz?
soothsaye sometimes it does depends on the build if you use Plesk it will be var but you can always sym link it to another partition if you run out of space
and server with russian name don't showing correctly, language updates was installed
I think he was saying that he doesn't use it.
then it wouldn't have needed the 'lol' :)
btrfs does not need an ext boot for grub, however it will report an error which you will have to press out of on each boot if you do not have one.
nvidia graphics controller and broadcom wireless drivers
ok
does 11.4 fix the pulse audio stuttering problem in 10.10
updating to natty now
ok now im totally confused as to how much size to give each
Oh, lots of traffic. I hope I get some attention. I just downloaded 11.04 and tried to run it, but the graphical environment would fail to load. I'd get the "ubuntu" splash screen (with the progressive dots), then blink to a garbage screen of static, and the computer would freeze. I have a run-of-the-mill 2Ghz AMD machine, my video card is an NVIDIA GeForce 7800 GT, 256Mb... If I can get it to boot the graphical environment, I should be fine.
I think this is in the relese notes...
arand_, ok wait to reboot
what size should each mount point / partition be?
Soothsayer, thats up to your needs
I had allocated 60 gb to this ext4 earlier assuming it would be the single mount point /
Reboot won't change anything regarding the btrfs..
brewster, yes you will have to reinstall them I expect
Ubuntu bug 772859 in Ubuntu "BCM4311 wifi hangs hp2133 notebook after 2 minutes" [Undecided,New]
darn
Since no changes have been made yet..
My notify-osd is not displaying any popups, can someone help me fix it?
can somebody tell me if 11.4 fixes pulseaudio suttering problem?
Soothsayer, then delete the  / mount and recreate it...and then the others...say 20gigs each?
wow i asked that like forever ago
soothsayer remember to put mount points of /var /etc on any other partitions you create for them
arand_, i made some updates and need reboot
ok.
Heh, I did a /lastlog btrfs ;)
arand_, brb
hey... what's the problem with btrfs?
i had a freeze problem with mine too; it would prevent it from booting though, ssb/b43 had a problem that when they were loaded it'd succeed without a freeze less than half the time, that' was awesome
what else goes in /var ? (Besides MySQL which im aware of)
but i got it fixed by talkingwith the developer :]
How can I force new application to open in an _empty_ workspace, instead of stacking in one?
unity and desktop cube?  no?  I tried to enable it, and that didn't go over well.
 * atpa8a likes btrfs
if you want to chat in russian
!ru
Пожалуйста посетите #ubuntu-ru для получения помощи на русском языке  / Pozhalujsta posetite /join #ubuntu-ru dlya polucheniya pomoshi na russkom yazyke
soothsayer logs mostly
shane4ubuntu, really? that sucks
Soothsayer, my var has backups  cache  crash  games  lib  local  lock  log  mail  opt  run  spool  tmp
On an Asus eee 900 is there a way to scale the cpu down from 900mhz while still on AC power?
I'm going to be mainly using this workstation for web / database development.
oh that's what you posted, thanks for filing a bug
if you use qmail sometimes that use /var also
half of the warning box is off the screen so I can read it.  ugg.
Ok...before I upgrade to Ubuntu 11, how can I figure out why 10 crashes my system, when 9 dosen't?
I see.
Likewise, (In noted that you can use btrfs without /boot, though you will see an error each boot and need to press to continue.)
so it can be a pure root fs now grub2 finnly supports it
hello massively sized channel
hello nandaram
i did a diffrent hack to install os on compressed fs
so anyone who wants to pm me about your first impressions of natty
can you try installing linux-backports-modules-net-natty-generic and see if it still freezes after a reboot?
that's one of the first thing someone will ask you to try
may i ask for the simpist procedure to get 8 ttys on default boot
Do you guys normally store your data files under the /home directory? Like say documents, pictures, reports, code projects, design projects, etc?
full kubuntu install btrfs compressed 1.2 gb
Nightshade_, Natty rocks
ok, got Natty finally loaded
yep, i do
I do
what version of ubuntu is natty?
Soothsayer, yes, thats the idea of home
soothsayer but if you run out of space you can always sym link to another partition
i also tried to ask you before you left, what crashes?
11.04
grub doesn't support it completely, the grubenv file can't be written to it seems, which is what makes it error
fyi im drunk as hell and running a new version
11*
Jon4248, i just wanted to know what to expect cuz im upgrading right now ^_^
yes that is standard use of /home
anyone know if it's possible to dock the launcher on the bottom of the screen?
still bootable?
It is normally not needed, but it causes issues though.
i use dual monitor and the launcher is in a VERY boad spot!
ah
Sorry if I left abruptly. What crashes where? Refresh my memory please
I just upgraded to Natty Narwhal (11.04) and my desktop seems to have changed quite a bit. Can I revert to the classic look, rather than the scrolling sidebar thing?
oh ye symlink it.
ok
mordof, no
does that error not timeout?
it's not possible or you don't know?
well i made a 100mb ext4 anyways
amy_, logout and select classic then login
is there documentation for upgrade from old long term to new long term
being i never got a answer
yes, you need to log out and at the login screen click on the Session button at the bottom
ohhh, great, I messed with compiz and now unity is broken, no menus, no sidebar thingy  that isn't good
You get a "press any key to continue", but otherwise seems fine, I'm not sure how it works with non-standard stuff like compression and so, presumably it should be fine..
lol
soothsayer yeah a sym link i.e ln -s /var/home/var
alt-tab does nothing
but with the zlib enabled i got more space outta my ssd anyways
does anyone know what an inittab is?
amy_, yes logout and choose classic
soothsayer yeah a sym link i.e ln -s /var/ home/var (correction)
hi, i cant change the display brightness, on ubuntu, is a driver missing?
alt-f2 does nothing!
I've got to test that at some point, is it possible to set compression up via the installer?
ctrl+alt+f2
does anyone know how to get shotwell working in 11.04, does nothing when trying to open
any ideas on how to fix this?  apparently compiz and unity are not friendly with each other
that will then put anything written to /var to /home/var in that example
its it takes a hack to do it bascily as soon as the installer make the part you remount it with the compression flage
k... i get that it matches the design - but there's glitches/bugs when using two monitors (one to the left of the launcher) ;_;
this isawful!!!
arand, what can i do now
shane4ubuntu, i dont know yet, havent had a chance to look at it
its aculy very responsiv
is there any way a remote can letters in x with 1 -9 buttons
that is a virtual terminal what do I do once I'm there?
So 20 GB for UbuntuOS ( sda1 with mount point '/' ),  100 GB for data files ( sdb1 with mount point '/home') , 100 GB for databases, etc ( sdb2 with mount point '/var' ) ? <--- makes sense?
!ru
Пожалуйста посетите #ubuntu-ru для получения помощи на русском языке  / Pozhalujsta posetite /join #ubuntu-ru dlya polucheniya pomoshi na russkom yazyke
better then when it was uncompressed
default install pulls up 6 ttys you fucked your xserver im drunk pm me ill swear in channel getting compiz up in ubuntu should be cake work
So basically you halt after partitioning step in d-i and remount?
Is it possible to /not/ download stuff when installing ubuntu ?
and these ppl suck so im out... seriously where the fuck is the default boot spread threw
Ok, re-do the mount I gave you
mordof, thats a bug
naa the installer does a few things before it acully copys files just do it then
is it possible to share a DVD burner over the network, so it can be used directly from a netbook without one?
I like the channel no swear policy thanks anyway
Do this "sudo mount /dev/sdXY /mnt -o defaults,subvolid=0"
both using ubuntu
it doesent notec the swap out
I shouldn't install Ubuntu-11.04 or Gnome3
shane4ubuntu, ctrl+alt+f1 >> then login >> type sudo service gdm restart
arand, ok
well F. how do i get compiz working in unity? right now it just disappears everything.
is that going to reboot it?
then have a look in /mnt.
soothsayer yeah that looks fine although you might not need 20gb for /
I'm a keyboard guy, i hate any system eat my keyshortcut and i even can't chane it.
So what's the deal with the 3D?
anyone know where i'd report bugs about the Unity launcher in Natty?
why it doesnt work for me?
shane4ubuntu, yes, the gdm
in fedora you can just add the flage ubuntu hasent added it yet
i've got 2 that need addressing >.<;
Do you see your old data along with the new @home subvolume?
but if the settings in compiz aren't right, then that won't change them right?
arand, cant open this folder
What's the version number of the next alpha?
so after install you gotta add the flage back to fstab as well
e.g. 11.04
Ubuntu support for btrfs is kinda wonky..
but it works
can someone help me?
OchoZero9,  perhaps you have 2d eys
Maybe for the softwares, etc I install?
shane4ubuntu, maybe
you said you were doing raid for robustitigitation in face of crashes, what crashes?
seems as though I have lost the windows manager, how can I restart it?
what utility can i run so it can tell me the specs of my device?
mordof, believe if you now swap over monitors its alright
11.10
"cd /mnt; ls" ?
soothsayer depends on what you install if you can spare it then use it
my audio in 10.10 stutters.
wow, robustitigitation :) nice term.. hard disk crashes I meant back then.
yes its stack
Having some problems with crypt and Jabberd2 following an upgrade to natty...
shane4ubuntu, do you have auto login on?
is it possible to share a DVD burner over the network, so it can be used directly from a netbook without one?
It should have no problem running 3D . since windows aero works fine, and starcraft II works fine too
is there any way a remote can type letters in x with the 1 -9 buttons
i like turtles... and ubuntu 11.04.
i just updated to 11.04 today. if i move my mouse over to the second monitor - hover text sticks until moving back
Oh, lots of traffic. I hope I get some attention. I just downloaded 11.04 and tried to run it, but the graphical environment would fail to load. I'd get the "ubuntu" splash screen (with the progressive dots), then blink to a garbage screen of static, and the computer would freeze. I have a run-of-the-mill 2Ghz AMD machine, my video card is an NVIDIA GeForce 7800 GT, 256Mb...
no,
arand, ls stack
basically - if i try to use crypted passwords in the config - it crashes and complaints about an undefined symbol crypt
ye I can spare it now.. shrink it later maybe.. plus I might want to virtualize Windows 7 within Ubuntu too.. maybe virtualbox or vmware.
anyone around here maybe have any experience in this area?
in a particular manner at that too.  as well, when moving placements, instead of the anim snapping to the unity bar - they snap to the very left of the desktop (the far monitor)
shane4ubuntu, reboot (sudo shutdown now -r) and then log into classic desktop (no effects)
ah
soothsayer no dont shrink later just use symlinks to it
for each disk you increase your odds of disk failure :D
I changed the GTK theme in Natty, and I notice most themes create an unsightly black triangle in the resizing corner. Any known way to eliminate that?
the second one isn't quite as big of a deal.. but the first one is bugging the hell out of me
It should drop to 620mhz on battery, but doesn't [Ubuntu 10.10]
The video is built in the processor on a separate die. Intel HD graphics
shane4ubuntu, reconfigure compiz, logout and log back into unity
Hmm, that is odd..
you shouldn't have to enable anyhting it should just work
mordof, just report them as bugs in unity 3d
anyone familier with shotwell
arand, yes
OchoZero9,  you wont get 3d with that then
try installing powertop and running it for a while, it might be able to tell you what's keeping it from clocking down; and will tell you what states it's been in and for how long
ok, but I'm not sure what to reconfigure compiz back to, I didn't realize it was going to mess up unity with just two clicks of a mouse
isn't making too many partitions on the same disk getting redundant?
I'm not sure then, I guess you could try it from a liveCD instead..
shane4ubuntu, what did you change?
well, i distribute the odds rather :)
he should, sandybridge and ironlake are supported by the drivers ...
cat /proc/cpuinfo says it's still at 900mhz.
arand,  can i recover the data?
oh ok
it might at any given time; that's not an appropriate way to check it
oh six really 3d?
I was going to enable the desktop cube, and then all the warnings popped up mostly off the screen so I couldn't see them.
I had a user before with the same issue, and this worked in that instance
can anyone help me with an apache2 issue?  whenever I go to my site via my dyndns name it changes ht eURL in the browser to my IP address
anyway, I decide to not do any software raid-1.. manually backup stuff instead.
good idea
so trying to click through them without knowing what they said, I'm not really sure what I did.
it makes you think about it too; it's a handy device
soothsayer not that Im aware of Im a Red hat admin I look after alot of red hat and centos boxes it will always have its uses installing on one partition increases any recovery time
are there themes for the empathy irc interface?  im not a fan of the bubbles.
also getting rather poor desktop performance...
:\
I'm not getting any desktop performance
i don't know about any themes, but there are a handful of appearances that come with it that you can pick from in the options
is there a #unity ?
?
it should take whatever theme you give it in the options. I think it should ship with three or four by default
shane4ubuntu, try this in a terminal gconftool-2 --recursive-unset /apps/compiz
arand,  someone told me there is problem with fsck.btrfs
i mean everything is slow
shane4ubuntu, logout and login
anyone having issues with freezing/crashing on restart, after upgrading to 11.04?
shane4ubuntu, ubuntu don't want you using ccs Mark has said so they are not for users
ok, so final call on '/' mount point size then?
hey, i've downloaded the 11.04 iso image, and i'm supposed to burn it, but i don't have any empty cd's nearby. i do have dvd's though - can i use a dvd as well?
cranch,  if your ip address is in /etc/hosts it will use dns name I think
sorry about that. I just don't have unity for whatever reason
i dont seem to have an Options menu entry in empathy
Basically, what the problem is MM uses the top-level of the btrfs and dumps all files there, wheras NN sets up subvolumes under the top-level and mounts these instead. This has nothing to do with btrfsck.
ah - wasn't referring to Unity directly, but that would definately be troublesome
robin0800 then how do you change them?
soothsayert 20gb is fine if you can spare it Id go with a 10gb min
yes
so just write an entry in /etc/hosts with IP - fqdn?
thanks.
ok.
welcome.
from the mainui, edit -> preferences -> themes tab
i almost deleted my Windows partition... Jon4248, you jinxed me earlier!
Your current NN install is mounting the subvolume, and hence you cannot see the old home files which are in fact above it in the tree.
arand,  any tool to recover to scan the partition to find the files?
shane4ubuntu, you don't thats the point later there will be a proper gui
well ill try to install on a zlib compressed root grub2 and see if the system explodes
Soothsayer, lol carefully now...you should really have a backup anyways...but im sure you thought of that right?
so what do I do if I have a program that needs the system tray like jupiter?
how do you get your system information like processor memory graphics?
cranch if you put an ip adress and its dns name in /etc/hosts rather than typeingthe ip in you can simply type the dns name
No, mounting the top-level with the command give should be enough.
ill be compressing everything now even the kernel
hmm, that didn't seem to fix it, still no windows manager.
oh this is external
brb]
don't spam the channel please, with away messages or url's
port-forwarded out the FW
Did you use any non-standard options for btrfs, compression or so?
shane4ubuntu, at this point you could of reinstalled natty by now...you might as well do that.
!away > SuBmUnDo
SuBmUnDo, please see my private message
go to dyndns entry from the outside and it rewrites the dyndns to my external IP
How can I extned an extended partition to consume some freed from another primary partition?
running a gtx 460 nvidia - i checked Additional Drivers, and it says my nvidia driver is activated but not currently in use.  i'm running Natty, what does that mean? do i have to enable it or is it not needed?
ubuntu 11.04 shotwell help please
0choZero9 top
i'm experiencing slow performance for visuals..
I did have 'critical' stuff backups.. but not for level 2 and level 3..
Do expect it to break, and account for that ;)
so ye, ill be careful instead, simpler than backing those up.
just a test heh
so how do i get my wobbly windows back?
Soothsayer, ah
test machine'
thx Surlent777 & Herbs
ccsm, enable the wobbly plugin
ChronicSyncope, install ccsm enable wobbly
thx i found it, i was in the wrong window
i kneo it work fine with grub2 having a ext4 boot
cranch isnt that what its supposed to do
arand,  i tried to make install before and stack 2 times and i left this partiotion and made it again
Help!.... I am trying to do the Natty upgrade from 10.10 but the download speeds on the repo are insane slow... My eta is over 7 hours.... I have plenty of bandwidth
whenever i enable composite my desktop breaks
"unable to location package ccsm"
actually no
that's just the way it is. Everyone and their mother is upgrading today
I'd assume it keeps the dydns name in it the whole time
Yea, I've worked through a bunch of kvms poking into btrfs =)
its just not wobbling.
arand knows a lot about using btrfs, and the different filesystems generally aren't comparable on those terms; you should just listen to him
How can I extend an extended partition to consume some freed space from another primary partition?
Jon4248, i check the box, enable opengl and composite, but nothing happen.s
yea i wasent having a issue i got the entire os compressed in a sabble state
Do you know if they intend to keep the Classic option on Natty or eventually force Unity?
you should be using the opengl plugin, i really don't like how they split that in .9
gogeta knows as well..
noted
ohsix, how do i do that?
arand,  i m dummy and i didn't do nothing the only options from install
I understand they're keeping it for now but intend to eventually discontinue it, but don't quote me on that
ChronicSyncope, video card drivers maybe?
 * SuBmUnDo is back (gone 00:03:25)
A partition can fetch unallocated space from both the left and the right too?
ChronicSyncope, what video card you using?
just enabling it should be enough, if your video card can actually manage
bkenrensa use another mirror / contact your isp or just accept the servers are busy
ohsix, it's making me turn on composite and opengl
bkerensa, unity 3d and unity 2d I think
auto away sorry
Hmm so if I prefer classic perhaps staying with 10.10 might be best bet
cranch, try the apche channel perhaps I dunnu much about it
is there another place i can get help for ubuntu 11.04?
Jon4248, GTX 460 768MB
np thanks for the help!
I just dont like the integrated menus... I hate it.... I love classic panels
possibly, but that won't be supported forever, and does work just fine in Natty
now to run this VM through the 11.04 upgrade
format not available for video
almost same one i have - but i'm on the fermi 1gb
gonna see if grub blows up in my face if i put it in zlib compression as well
ohsix, i just upgraded today, everything was working an hour ago :p I have a GTX460 so i'm sure my card will support it
np cya
nobody has seen your problem, most likely; i know i havent, and i use shotwell
Just choose Ubuntu Classic at the login screen
hmm alt as meta no longer works in terminal in 11.04. alt seems to cause the terminal to lose focus or something. anysolutions?
are you kidding???  I just about got through setting up my install, I can't believe it was that easy to break unity, they should have a great big warning label on compiz
I'm trying to boot into the liveCD (not install), and the computer will freeze upon starting the graphical environment. I'd get the "ubuntu" splash screen (with the progressive dots), then blink to a garbage screen of static, and the computer would freeze. I have a run-of-the-mill 2Ghz AMD machine, my video card is an NVIDIA GeForce 7800 GT, 256Mb...
it may not be detecting my graphics correctly
Hmm, then I'm afraid I'm not actually sure, you could try doing the same thing from recovery mode, or from a liveCD, if it is somehow dependent on not having the /home mounted, which it really shouldn't..
Having a lot of trouble with my mic on skype on 10.10. Any ideas?
How can I extend an extended partition to consume some freed space from another primary partition?
I will go back to the classic desktop before I re-install, that is just absurd.
yea but it might not with nouveau; so you'd additionally need to try the proprietary driver
hey guys. what is the solution when gnome or nautilus suddenly stops opening folders and mounts for file access but instead runs them through a program, for instance mine is running them through gedit for some unknowable reason....?
shane4ubuntu, lol
If I want to try gnome3, what PPA should I be installing from?
dtcummin you cant
Yeah but when/if they discontinue classic in Natty then I gotta do a workaround to keep classic and that wont be fun?
i am having an issue with trying to start shotwell, does absolutely nothing when trying to open it,
Ziber problem exactly?
ymasory, it seems to make everything lose focus in my experience, and then you have to log out to restart x so you can start metacity again
ChronicSyncope, open additional drivers
someone must have a way of fixing this, I mean, it shouldn't be that easy to break it.
gotta admit the entire os installed at 1.2gb is impressiv
Built in mic isnt working
the mime type for folders got changed to open with gedit, if you right click on a folder you can have it open with nautilus again
have u already got 4 primary partitions?
ohsix, Jon4248  proprietary nvidia driver? I 've been using that
the discontinuation, if any, would occur in future releases. Natty itself will remain unaffected
for a 4gb ssd
cvrse, yes
 * HyperSh0ck gives mad love to ohsix!
dunno what to say
ohsix, Jon4248 it says "active but not in use"
Oh, your new /home is ext4 then?
same with mine :o
cvrser, yes
Jon4248, someone must...but not me..lol...have you tried to restart?
For the '/home' and '/var' mount points, should I be creating "Primary Partitions"  or "Extended Partitions"
ok the  new 11.04 is shitty
?
then it's probably using nouveau; i don't know how to make it "in use"
#ubuntu-offtopic, this is a support channel
ohsix, what is nouveau?
arand, yes i did new install to have ubuntu
please, thats criticism that doesnt help anything or anyone.
if you log in dmesg, or the kernel log, does it show any error messages? /var/log/*
there were many months of prereleases where you could have provided feedback
Soothsayer, i just pick whatever is default.
Primary
ok
(but still not here, t his is a support channel)
it doesent matter as long as you not going to make more than 45 partitions
but thses are so clear
the open source 3rd party nvidia driver
4 not 45
arand,  how to see this?
Ziber is it muted is a laptop audio installed you are so vague noone will help you
it's finally shipping in natty, it can do quite a bit :]
1. where is the right click on the tool bar?
ohsix, i don't think so, it's disabled in synaptic
infact not 4 but 3
there isn't one, it's not a panel; it just looks like one
i'm gonna try and see about that
dtcummin, not sure if it's possible then sry
there is a log file viewer
well how am I suppose to see all my cpu core  with the cpu scaling applet?
dtcummin Its not possible
:(
ohsix, although when i click on monitor in system it doesn't force me to use the nvidia applet, which is suspicious, but i was playing portal 2 in wine a few minutes ago
hello
you need a panel if you want that, don't use unity; pick the classic session on othe login screen
ziber ther are usually 2 or 3 difeernt audio input channels you need to select int mic as default perhaps
Herbs, so I just have to start over?
Where?
some things are being dumped. If you don't like the changes, choose Ubuntu Classic from the login screen. Problem solved.
paste the output of glxinfo to a pastebin (run it in a terminal)
portal 2 works in wine!?
unless you have another drive to put the partitions on then yes
i think i may not have the right driver
do you have desktop mixer panel?
it's not really dumped, it was just never added; it's a new implementation
mordof, yes just install the skidrow crack and run it with padsp wine portal2.exe from the directory
 thanks I will try that
You could "sudo umount /mnt" and "sudo mount /dev/sda3 /mnt" again and then see if there have been any additions to the logs
ah
is there a linux sms app
ehhh i don't care, but a lot of people do talking about cracked software and stuff
woo! anyone upgrading to narwhal right now?
i could get rid of docky right?
Fair enough. I forgot that.
Herbs, ok thanks
well, in less than just a few hours I managed to break unity, and am back in the classic gnome desktop
sms?
rileyp, check alsamixer in a terrminal
I got dual screens and it seems really screwed up
ohsix, it's cracked because drm breaks wine, not because i dont own it. i bought it.
yes sms
ziber terminal $alsamixer lol
right, people don't understand the distinction generally; just a heads up
ohsix, it's actually the recommended fix on winehq
shane4ubuntu, how do you feel about unity?
i know
device is busy.         (In some cases useful info about processes that use          the device is found by lsof(8) or fuser(1))
double  taskbar time and date widgets
I've booted a machine with the ubuntu rescue console. There are two harddrives in the machine. I'm trying to back up one harddrive to the other using dd (dd if=/dev/sda of=/dev/sdb) . It's been sitting there for quite a few hours now. How long should I expect it to take ?
Im not an ubuntu user but isnt unity buggy as hell?
it was, but now it's significantly less so
not impressed, although, now it appears I broke gnome too, so perhaps this is a compiz/natty problem
that's advice from other users, upstream would prefer bugs that keep copy protectionf rom not working being fixed
"connection refused"
what would one look for in glxinfo?
#ubuntu is the Ubuntu support channel, for all Ubuntu-related support questions. Please use #ubuntu-offtopic for other topics (though our !guidelines apply there too). Thanks!
 yes it is
shane4ubuntu, hehe
Ah, right, hmm, I guess you need to exit the ls that is stuck trying to access it.
hi guys i want to remove the sidebar from ubuntu 11.04!i don't know how to do it,please help
I'm on it now and it is screwy
i'm also wondering about the driver since i'm in the same situation
i have no clue about unity :(
I am only a bot, please don't think I'm intelligent :)
I can't make much sense of the output from powertop :( Doesn't seem to mention CPU frequency, just 'wakeups' (whatever they are)
look at the vendor string, it should signal rather clearly if it's the proprietary or nouveau driver
how
NVIDIA Corporation
:\
OK, did you do anything to disable acpi?
Or you could just look at the logs and try to find it anyways, it shouldn't be too hard
on the login screen, choose Ubuntu Classic Desktop. That will revert the changes
wasnt off topic gui noog
ok, what is the desktop??? used to be metacity, I guess that is no longer true??
noob*
mordof, obviously no co-op with that setup, also if you choose to go that route, you'll also have to do winetricks glsl-disable in your portal folder with the exe in it, and it runs super smooth
gonna go classic
 see if that work
not as far as I know...
works
thanks man
that is offtopic
shane4ubuntu, if upgrade to narwal, i could remove docky right? do i also still need compiz to do cool desktop switching?
no co-op, that's a fail.. i'll dual boot windows just for that game, lol
this is a support channel
I like the side bar icon thing
ziber type alsamixer in a terminal window or tty session
can you scale it?
post the output of dmesg to a pastebin
arand,  can i sent you the file?
yes
mordof, agree'd but I don't have time to play the co-op until summer, so i've got some time to work the bugs out :p
I have no idea, don't mess with compiz, I have already botched both my desktops.
Yes. Use ccsm (the compiz configuration tool) and look under the unity plugin, icon scaling
is there any way a remote can type letters in x with the 1 -9 buttons
armor-64, you cant remove it but can hide it forever
i don't know what to say
that is unity and gnome
 thanks
ahh i see. if you get them worked out want to let me in on how to do it? lol
shane4ubuntu, eek!
say it crashes
it should be in dmesg (you can just run "dmesg" in the terminal to see it.)
and one question how to do this?
how do you bring it back?
Are there any suspicious errors by the end of that?
so what was off topic exactly?
it should come back itself, but alt+f2 and run compiz --replace
mordof, haha sure, you might not even need the aforementioned illegal fix in 11.04, check winehq
log out, then on the login screen, at the bottom, it'll say "Ubuntu". Click that, and choose "Classic Desktop" or the closest thing to it.
thats what i did
anyone any idea where /sys/devices/cpu/cpufreq/ondemand/ignore_nice_load has moved to with 11.
"i don't use, but isn't it buggy"
the fact that unity is poo
i need help with shotwell in ubuntu 11.04
11.04 that should have read
OchoZero9, unity --restart
i have the nouvou driver or w/e installed.. i'm not sure which it's using
alt+f2 didn't work
that's not a fact, and shouldn't be presented as such, that is your apparently not personally informed opinion
ziber if alsamixer will not open you audio isnt installed correctly i would say
 * dasy2k1 agrees with Herbs
but ill try both. btw i put a terminal icon on the desktop just in case
ohsix, what happened to the tab in appearence prefs that allowed you to turn on wobbly windows and such?
thanks guys for the help!i find it,i needed this so much see ya
if it says nvidia corporation it's the proprietary driver
oh dear ubuntu wannabe m$
brb
that was gone a while ago iirc
What about selecting a swap space during installation?
k.. that's annoying, i'm getting slow response on desktop applications
ohsix, i had it in 10.10 :p
11.04 is next LTS version?
CAN"T TAKE IT  GONNA REBOOT  TO CLASSIC
Why bother complaining about how terrible it is in a support channel when you don't use it and can't even make a coherent case? Complain in #ubuntu-offtopic, the bugs listings, or just drop it before someone gets annoyed and calls for a ban
no
the installer is giving me a warning that I haven't selected a partition for the swap space.
please, if you don't have any questions or need any help, don't speak; there are lots of people talking
Herbs unity looks more like Mac to me with that blasted dock and the menus being in the top bar
well, trying to reinstall
 stop the offtopic here
ah ok, yeah i tought time passed too fast.. ;)
bye
vulvuzela
suelent777 who asked any of you to make judjements on what I say?
reinstalled, same issue
I can't get 11.04 to boot at all
you, by posting them in a public forum
one need not ask; this is a help channel, and we all know it
Soothsayer, yes you need a seperate swap space
I sure the devs got all these issues  presented to them before hand and it was ignored
I said one thing about a gui and got slated ahove your ubuntu up your ass
look in synaptic try and play a sound using aplay etc if these thing show problems go to the ubuntu forums multimedia thread it has setup of everything in there so you can play any and everything and set upof sound devices and video and dvd etc
Hello there, Just installed 11.04 on my Vosto 3300 and it didnt install the nvidia drivers. so no flashiness. Is it working?
please, if you don't have any questions or need any help, don't speak; there are lots of people talking
I know you guys are busy, but I still hope for some help with booting the LiveCD on a computer with an NVIDIA GeForce 7800 GT, 256Mb...
ok, anyone with actual knowledge about enabling desktop cube with unity?  I tried ccsm and that was very bad news.
Red hat / centos / fedora / slack ware > ubuntu
hello....i add a bad server to synaptic....i cant recharge the servers wont let me use synaptics
The computer will freeze upon starting the graphical environment. I'd get the "ubuntu" splash screen (with the progressive dots), then blink to a garbage screen of static, and the computer would freeze.
Please mind the language
It is busy here, you'd  think there was a recent release or something
saw a post about that on omgubuntu blog
if you have more pritation you hd may crash
look in restricted drivers (in system) check its activated
sorry for the language
ok, thanks, I will check it out.
but just because I made a comment about unity ffs
seems a lot of people are commenting on the proprietary drivers
i don't think that is a correct correlation
aditional drivers?
omg!ubuntu! or webupd8, can't remember with blog
zlib compressed btrfs root install no error other then the one you said would happon
My dad is getting a ubi-partman error when attempting to install ubuntu x64 11.04 final, any help?   ... not the best first impression... :(
why?
I will find it thanks.
 yeh new name same program
Yeah, my 11.04 won't install at all.
says its currently activated but not in use.
Ok, correction - it installs, but no boot
more partitions doesn't mean the harddrive will break sooner?
but my hd crash last night
what's the error, and what hardware do you have?
Herbs if you dont like unity dont use it . same for ubuntu
Bronz start to a prompt and remove type sudo xconfig and then type startx that should give tyou basic grahpics then google how to install your nvidia drivers
 deactivate then reactivate then reboot, should work then
in 11.04 how do i change it so when i move the mouse cursor over the edge it changes workspace?
not related to the number of partitions i can bet
Yea, that is something wrong there. What you might want to do is find a liveCD with a very new version of the kernel, (Fedora, or yet newer) and see if you can mount it from there instead. I'm not sure you'll be able to do much more from the buuntu kernel version.
it error'd out during installation
will try, brb.
what happened to frees speech and "open source"
ubi-partman exit code 141, on the screen after the checklist
get a grip
yes but i can`t mount partitions to /home/**
#ubuntu is the Ubuntu support channel, for all Ubuntu-related support questions. Please use #ubuntu-offtopic for other topics (though our !guidelines apply there too). Thanks!
Herbs, stfu and gtfo
lol the is your free speech is limited to the ops wims
thanks, how do I start the liveCD to a prompt instead of graphical?
just one more thing, Im on sdd, is it on automatic trim by default? or should I just do that same procedure for 10.04?
irc
hmm, i dunno, everything that'd make it work is there; i don't personally pay attention to the eee stuff, but eee_laptop might have changed between then and now, i'd look there first
thanks
Herbs, those are concepts to stabilize society. much like religion. duh
you guys are making it off topic for one comment I made think on!
-_-
Please watch your language and topic to help keep this channel family-friendly, polite, and professional.
 no idea on that one
lol
thanks :)
ahhh
what do you mean "remove type sudo xconfig"?
Please don't further things. Someone will take care of it if it continues.
Classic solved all the issues
this is a help channel, it's not a free speech thing, what you are doing right now is completely antithetical to what the channel is, and you don't even suggest that you are here to get support for a problem you are having; that annoys people
arand,  fedora its ok?
I just want to know why my 11.04 can't boot, that's all.
Classic is the shiznit
p67a-ud7-b3
ok installing now :)
Bronz are you trying to run from a live cd or install from alive cd
how about getting things to show up in the notification area?  anyone know about that?  there a many apps that I use and like them up there.
did some googling, there's a bunch of investigation going on about that error
arand,  you think its kernel problem?
thanks for the help - i'll leave it for another day, it's clearly peak support season right now!
And I think that suggesting that those abbreviations are tantamount to swearing is silly, but I don't care, just tell me how to make the darned thing work.
ahhhhhhhhhh wtf.
if running from a live cd do not choose nvidia driver in setup
Hmm, Well frankly not sure if it will make much difference...
it surely is interesting :]
its very thoughtful that I can use firefox during the installation.
can I put the fancy side bar on classic
?
when did you download the iso for the installer?
shix I aid one thing Im here for the support you guys are going on 1 because I made a comment about unity
30 minutes ago or so
them an trung ga :)
It is a btrfs problem, but btrfs is part of the kernel, so the newer the kernel, the more bugfixes btrfs has.
Anybody else having the same problem? 11.04 won't boot?
eventually install, but right now just vboot. I can't do either because of the freeze. If I can get the basic graphics you say, that should be enough; I can install nvidia-current on my own after that.
you probably can, just turn on the unity plugin in ccsm, and use compiz as your wm, it's not designed to work like that, but it might be OK
no
do you have internet access? most of the reports are listing that there's no internet access during install :\
propertry Linux
 * dasy2k1 thinks the flames should be sent to #ubuntu-offtopic
ooh maybe
or it might not, if the unity plugin draws the boxes that are in the middle, then you can't just get the bar
yeah, all the check boxes are checked
arand,  data are there you think?
if you are looking to use unity with no compiz there is 'unity 2d'
Hang on, actually, try using the mainline kernel.
though windows 7 needs a driver installed to connect to the internet
So... I ask for help, and I get ignored... but people have time to give me a hard time for swearing?
Cant remove the driver, says InstallArchives() failed.
do you need help? i simply asked you to stop speaking if you don't need help, there are already a lot of people talking
if you could get your logs from the error it'd be helpful
Bronz often graphics fail because they are not set up correctly and leave you with no screen. To avoid this use default video drivers and they will work. This will get your system up and running have aplay then google how to install nvidia drivers and do so accordingly
well
it ok
oshix sort your stuff out you wannabe
how would I do that?
I don't need preety
hehe
is that a question?
Is there some way to force default drivers?
shane4ubuntu, three choices find an indicator equivalent whitelist the indicator area or use unity 2d
is there some way that i can make it so if an nfs goes down that users would be redirected to a secondary home ?
whats youyr prob?
is it preferable to install in to the oem mode?
preety I'm just a power user that need solid
OK, how do I tell the live-CD to boot using default video drivers?
use a live cd and check /var/log/syslog
kuel
Yes, I would guess that the data is still there, but whether or not you can get to it, I don't know..
you're getting a black screen, right?
on your main partition that you're installing on i mean, for that directory to check
Herbs like you atitude
 have to pass you on to somone more experianced then, thats going beyond what i have experianced getting nvidia to work
i want to use an nfs for home but if it goes down i want users to be redirected to a local directory for their home (one that can be synced with the nfs with cron or something)
Is there any place that I can look for a boot up log?
ok oshix help me with this an ubuntu server tty12 keeps respawning on login?
do you need help?
the installer didn't get far enough to select the partition
tty1*
mordof^^
is it preferable to install in to the oem mode?
 Once devs fix  the Unity issues some more then I'l sitch
Install the latest kernel from the mainline (instructions on the wiki) and then reboot into that kernel and try mounting it again.
switch*
what do you mean "remove type sudo xconfig"?  to remove any nvidia created xorg.conf which most probably is casing your x screen to fail  by typeing sudo xconfig a std xorg.conf will be created using std driversl
it fails as you click next on the screen with the checkboxes (space, internet access)
ohsix just watching
I found the whitelist  thing, but was unable to locate it in gconf-editor, seems that has changed.
most people are complaining about cosmetic issues; they're not trying to convince you to switch or anything
thought youd shut up
I'll take that as an idk
*** HELP ME PLEASE *** I cannot get a fresh install of 11.04 to boot
it's just simpler and more forward looking, with tablets and netbooks
ohsix, does using gnome classic disable compiz?
boot how?
anyone know where the cpu scaling settings (like ignore nice load) have moved to (used to be in /sys/devices/cpu/cpufreq)??
arand,  can i make with live cd?
Nope
shane4ubuntu, it there yesterday
no, you can still use it as your window manager
bronx do not select nvidia
You won't need to with the mainline
Like, I power on the computer, it gives me the GRUB 2 menu, and that's all
i don't recall that entry ever, what kernel were you running?
 I understand
in 11.04 gnome how do i make cursor flip workspace?
After upgrading to the latest Ubuntu, my Conky's {acpi} no longer displays my CPU temperature. Any clue? Thanks.
It sits and spins for about a minute then locks up tight as a drum
so after an install?
{acpitemp}*
shane4ubuntu, think you need the terminal
hmm.. there should be a way to get the installer to install with debug output
I didn't see it, let me doublecheck, I was looking at a web page that pointed me to desktop -> Unity -> panel or something like that.
Yes, I'm on live cd now
so ubuntu 11.0 is bugged I take it?
the stock one AFAIK on 10.10
if I'm going to completely wipe my 10.10 install and install 11.04 in its place, what are some steps I should take before wiping (besides backing up my data) that will let me get back to the same setup on 11.04? Thanks!
blender window is opening  wacky
fwiw it doesn't suit me without a proper panel, the panel is make or break for me
I had him check from the livecd mode, he can get to the internet from the livecd at least
I mean, if I load the live-CD, it will attempt to go into graphical mode on its own; how do I stop it from doing that? How do I tell it to use "default" or "safe" video drivers when booting?
the ubuntu versions are just based on when they're released. 11 = 2011, 04 = April
hmmmm
does it show any interesting error messages?
let me try that
 used to set /sys/devices/cpu/cpufreq/ondemand/ignore_nice_load to 1 to stop boinc maxing my cpu all the time
bbl
got a link to what you are looking at?
any body with Dual screens
and Blender
ah the governor options
?
A large amount of the first questions asked in this channel start with "Does anyone/anybody..."  Why not ask your next question (the real one) and find out? See also !details, !gq, and !poll.
 * Bluebill-Wolf head tilts "ahh  (the more you know)"
thanks
^_^
sorry, i don't know enough about this to get anywhere :\ lol
theres one for each cpu, and /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpufreq/ondemand/ignore_nice_load
 yeh the governer settings, cant seem to find them now
you are a pro, thanks!
was hoping i could at least get you in the right direction
ziber that will fix any audio issue you have :D
 If you have a large enough external drive, you can just dump an image of your current HDD with dd
if you could find out how to get logs to show for when you're getting that error -it'd be helpful in resolving the problem at least
when i try to enter in windows from GRUB, the screens turns black and then i come back to GRUB, what's wrong?
arand,  just donwload  the deb?
i have a 500 gb drive with a lot of free space but my ubuntu is on a 10gb partition and the remaining 490 is a win7 partition. Anything I could do?
 ahh missing the extra system, found them now
Don't forget about me! How do I boot a liveCD without it trying to use the nvidia graphics (or whatever is causing it to freeze when starting the graphical env)?
Anyone has  duals screens and Blender in window mode?  I run blender window mode and it streched off screen I have a nvidia geforce card with the plugin running
just dd the partition with ubuntu
 thought somone had moved them :-o
Yes, three of them (header image and and another which i don't remeber the name of)
(thanks for the help, though 8-))
Id use rscync over dd
in previous  Ubuntu version  it all worked fine
can i pm?
Ok, back
lol true
sure
There should be instructions on how to install on the wiki
what is the best way to wipe out a hard drive?
grrr...
Ahhh!!! Its Fezzik!!! Andre??
in old versions using compiz or not using compiz?
 draks boot and nuke
 afroman Best way?
John, as it were.
Bronz If live cd will not boot for you and your not selcting nvidia I cant help sorry. I never use livecd.
dban
hmm
nvidia dirvers have some awful gotchas with multiple outputs, and they don't do xrandr 1.2+
is there anywhere else I can ask to get more help?
i got wobbly windows working, but desktop cube still kills my theme, and whenever i restart classic gnome, my desktop setup is 2x2 instead of 4x1
no idea.. i'd just try re-stating the problem here and hopefully someone else will pick up on it
hey all, im using backtrack4 r2 on a live usb stick. I am quite happy with the speed
rpk ubuntuforums.org
I think compz was on on my past installl
Minor question.... What are some good, _tested_, and stable programs for burning DVD+Rs?
Ok, so I tried without quiet nosplash in GRUB2, same result
Yeah, I'm not actively selecting anything; I don't see any options to change the video either. Thanks for the help, though, it is going in the right direction. I'll try the alternative disk to see if any ideas pop up.
i had lots of compiz crashes when i was trying to set up my old settings, i don't think they tested much more than what unity would use
as in most thoural?
ok, I see a couple open bug reports
I've been using Ubuntu for four years now. I'm finding this new release harder to use. You have to search for programs?
Nothing shows on the screen
we don't support a lot of variants like backtrack here
when i try to enter in windows from GRUB, the screens turns black and then i come back to GRUB, what's wrong?
a way to clean the hd so that nothing can be retrieve after
yeah..
Hmm, I would try reinstalling grub.
Congratulations guys on the new release. If I still have troubles I'll come back in a day or two, hopefully the traffic will have subsided a bit by then.
you can add it to the panel/sidebar/launcher
afroman you guys need a good memory scrubber? I have one, if you're interested...
Bronz at screen freeze you could try CTRL+alt +f1 and see what happens you may end up in a tty session meaning ubuntu has started up completely but gdm has failed thenits just a matter of resolving that
the best way is to melt it
kathie I know Im going to get flamed for this but wtf.... use a distro that suits you
xsinick, it dosen't matter as unity now uses different features of compiz than before so may not work now
can one retrieve data after? or is it completely gone?
xangua, I seen that, but you still have to search for it first. I just find it a pain
Oh, good idea. I'll try that too. Thanks.
I feel like to Cuss
Bronz,  are you trying latest ubuntu?
*thorough
when i try to enter in windows from GRUB, the screens turns black and then i come back to GRUB, what's wrong?
unity --replace` got it working, but I have to put that in every time.
and as been mentioned, dban; but there are also secure erase commands oyu can give most newer drives
I so wanted this  to work  out of the box
Yup, fresh from the press.
then the drive firmware erases it
 as far as you can be sure, its gone.... ok if you are the CIA and have years to spend analaising every molicule you may be able to find one or 2 bits but in general its gone
Write zeros to it seven times is industry standard.   You can do that with dd
is there any way a remote can type letters in x with the 1 -9 buttons
Herbs, go to hell! I'm just saying how I feel. I've been using Ubuntu for four years now, and don't plan on changing. But I don't think it's a reason to take a step backwards
the molecules don't move :D their magnetic domains do
it's like the one reason I can't recomend ubuntu to any one with a clear mind
kathine fine by me you noob
How do I reinstall GRUB2?
If you right-click the applications button in the panel, you can go to the categories
 better to use /dev/urandom for the first 6 passes
i like unity
I like the look
in 11.04 gnome-- how do i make cursor over edge flip workspace or move windows to otherworspaces(compiz fusion settings used to let me do this in 10.10)?
 of unity
arand, I seen that
but i just installed google earth and the fonts are all messed up
kathine debian wouldnt be a step backwards would it lol
no need for ad hominem or calling people names, if you have a question ask it; or please be quiet, or take your outbursts to #ubuntu-offtopic
Please, you are not being very friendly here..
I want to like unity, but it's a mission to start it
ok... yea
how did you install it?
but why is there less stuff
Does anyone know, can Brasero burn DVD+Rs compatible with consumer DVD players? If not, what's a program that can?
?
oshix she started
just downloaded it from google and double clicked
maybe you are understating the number of steps
Herbs, this chat is probably the most helpful place. Idiots like you were never tolerated
Im responding as I always will
i didn't even say what she said; and it doesn't matter
 should be compatable
hey
I had to change to classic mode to get to customize my tool bar
can , iask a question here?
you can still use 'clasic' gnome desktop i believe
Dasy2k1 I'm just checking here, I don't want to waste any of these
don't ask to ask, just ask
and to stop it from doubling on  my dual screens
ncg dont ask to ask , just ask
ncg sure go ahead! It's why we're here
thanx
ncg will you be nice to us?
<kathie> I've been using Ubuntu for four years now. I'm finding this new release harder to use. You have to search for programs?
<fezzik02> Nothing shows on the screen
* dyess002 (~david@173.243.23.137) has joined #ubuntu
* CrouchingTiger has quit (Client Quit)
* dyess002 has quit (Client Quit)
okay
you might be interested in googleearth-package, it will make a .deb for you, it's cleaner to install and remove that way; also it will depend on, and thus install fonts it depends on
yes. that's what I was on just a few minutes ago
ubuntu is the only linux distro ive found where my usb wireless dongle internet JUST WORKS
i was upgrading my ubuntu to 11.04
xangua, I seen that. I'm going to try to get used to this since it looks like it's going to be the new standard
dd if=/dev/urandom of=/dev/sdx bs=1024 ; dd if=/dev/zero of=/dev/sdx bs=1024 ; dd if=/dev/zero of=/dev/sdx bs=1024 ; etc (5 more times)
then my lap power off
is that in the software center?
I'm gonna switch back to unity  and take screen shots of problems
ncg yyyeeeeeeeeeeesssssssssssss  annnnnnnnnnnnddddddd
yea, it's also the package name if you just want to apt-get install it
or 4 more times.... (never was very good with math.)
try not to hit Enter so much, with the amount of talking your problem won't get noticed as easily
it takes some getting used to, but once you get the hang of it, it's really not bad.... i chose to switch to xfce, rather than deal w/ unity any longer
boy that upgrade really did a number on my box :(
An op should boot Herbs, he is really annoying
it contains make-googleearth-package, which you run to make the .deb for you
Something like that anyway.
will i be able to type in korean, chinese, and japanese when i upgrade?
I guess the idea is to steer towards using the keyborad, which seems to be faster in the end.. I'm not sure I like it either, but that's Unity for you..
you know about the classic session right?
xfce rocks so simple and never fails
i use the keyboard input methods thing on 10.10
teddyroosebelt, yah, me too (both laptop and desktop). Had to blow one away... trying to salvage the other now.
will that still be around when i upgrade?
for what exactly I have said ubuntu is good
playmouth mainprocess (61) killed by SEGV signal
?!
how do i put someone on ignore in irssi? lol
do you have a question, please take your outbursts elsewhere
yeah.. but i figure gnome 3 is coming out.. probably in november.. and my laptop is an old crappy one.. .i knew i'd ahve to make the switch eventually, so 11.04 was as good as any>. :)
gosh darn it why can't they just put the icons on all menus already
/SET IGNORE XXX perhaps?
nvidia or ati card?
it will be there somwhere, but if you are using unity it may take some finding!
in 11.04 gnome-- how do i make cursor over edge flip workspace or move windows to otherworspaces(compiz fusion settings used to let me do this in 10.10)?
255??
stbain1, ya.. i lost my box. im reinstalling with a old disk now. shame on me for upgrading haha
oh hey, /ignore works, lol
yay no more Herbs ^-^
How can you get icons to appear on System menu in gnome-panel?
dasy2k1, what do you mean? i can't search synaptic or something?
he can still see you though -_-
the panel and stuff will stay around for a long time, even with gnome-shell
i don't care :p he's been told many times he's being annoying and needs to stop
 * yi`zhi is a nublet
That's a gnome feature you know :þ
KM0201, arand, I guess it's like anything else, just going to take some getting used to. Is there anyway to add things to the panel?
maybe if 3/4 of the channel ignores him he'll get the picture
dunno, the gnome 3 panel i tried, looked totally different
or.. just ramble to himself *shrugs*
i hesitate to say indefinitely but i can't see some developers leave it behind
You Can find that in gconf somewhere.
ohshix im helping yuour punters I did have an ubuntu specific question last night that no one could answer Im a red hat admin
ubuntu freezes when I connect to my router....any ideas?
happened to me - reboot and icons are there
Yea, I know that. I was asking where
It's a gconf key somewhere
i couldn't figure out how to, but you can create anothe rpanel, and add items to it... (i think).. and just set it to auto hide
Herbs, seriously, as long as you aren't flooding the channel, who cares what you type?
How can you get icons to appear on System menu in gnome-panel?
the only thing about debian/ubuntu is stop moving things lol
you use "add to favourites" to add items.
 easy to install things as before but the interface is a bit differnt, if you use classic it will be exactly where you expect it tho
ah ok
So, has anyone had any experiences with Brasero messing up DVD+R, making it incompatible?
thx
dasy2k1, do you have suggestions for switching language inputs? or is keyboard input methods the best one?
/desktop/gnome/interface/menus_have_icons
Hello, how can I save everything that is currently in my RAM?
i like it because i can CTRL+space and type in 한글
KM0201, arand, Ok, thanks for the help! I'm going to go play a little more. Ubuntu still ROCKS!!
thanks
that was it
thx
Can anyone explain how GRUB is reinstalled
np
only if you accedentally tick keep the disc open... (excepting the normal amount of coasters that you get with any dvd buring)
thx
i'm not sure what part would "make" it incompatible, it tries very hard to make images/disks that will play in dvd players; what problem are you having?
now that yi`zhi has mentioned language inputs - in my win7 i use alt+shift+1 for english, alt+shift+2 for serbian/latin, etc. and i prefer to access them directly like this, rather then cycle through them with a single shortcut. is this possible to do in ubuntu?
 via grub-install normally
robin0800, thanks!
Ok, but Ubuntu doesn't actually boot.
There is a section on the wiki about reinstalling, I would go with the chroot option.
but is there another way to wipe out just the empty space?
You boot the live CD and then mount the root filesystem (where / is) and chroot to it and then re-install grub boot loader (properly or ... whatever).  Something like that anyway.
Great. I went to remove my name from the panel and the entire right side disappeared
ohsix none yet, fingers crossed I won't. I just have a _very_ limited supply of DVD+R discs, and I don't want to waste any that I don't have to... and I make disco balls out of my ruined discs...
read the link, you have to do all that from a live cd
Hi
iirc you can assign shortcuts to each ime in the options
well the restoregrub link ois for you then
is*
ahh, well in that case make brasero burn to an .iso image file; then burn that to the disk
Can I check the cd for defects in 11.04?
ooops sorry someone already did that.  Was typing when should have been reading.... sorry.
to see if thats the cause of the error
then you can skip the huge transcoding task in the middle if you have to try again
ohsix thanks, I'll keep that in mind!
I meant the burned cd?
Is there a way to save the data that is currently on my RAM?
 not sure why you would want to do that. if you want to delete things use shred -u
like the old installers had a "Check cd for defects" option
mickster4, Ok, I've done restoregrub about six times, no fix
how do i burn movies with ubuntu i do everything in brasero then when i click burn it just closes
Ivan96485, why would you want to?
I assume its still there, just hidden now?
rpk still there, you just have to press esc as soon as you see the brown screen
then either your ubuntu install is gone, or you're not doing it correctly
not natively no... or hybernate kinda does?
ubuntu freezes when I connect to my router....any ideas?
ah i just looked, just enable/disable and next/previous
thanks
 smartphone generation that will learn later and add that shit back
Well, a friend forgot to save a paper that is due tomorrow.
wtf guys? I tried to remove my name from the panel and all the information on the right side disappeared. Adding Notification Applet does not bring it back
maybe something other than ibus can do bindings like you want
km0201, I'm pretty sure it's there, I just installed it this afternoon.
Ivan96485, what was he using? Openoffice has a recover function
« gconftool --recursive-unset /apps/panel && killall gnome-panel »
When I go to recovery console and select failsafex, it works...
yeah, that's what i've been finding as well, hence the question. i realized it's not built-in, but was wondering if there was some hack to make it work like that.
Does anyone have any advice for burning a disc when you DVD drive might be poor. It's just that I've written Ubuntu 11.04 twice now and I have the burning software validate the disc after and I can open it and see or the files... but after I restart it's not detected when booting and when I try to view the files on the disc it doesn't detect anything.
Ivan96485, if he closed the software he was using its gone
its an indicator applett session you have removed
Thanks
I can see by physically looking at the disc that it has been written to. So I don't know
xsinick, you can set it to all then all will be shown
LibreOffice also has a recover function
why do I have to install the appelet stuff back when the system already have it in classic mode
if it can't find grub to update/reinstall it.. or you're doing it wrong
>:(
i know the other one can do it, i can't even remember the name at the moment though, i've been using them through ibus for so long
I dont think any of those work if you have never saved the doc, am i wrong?
turn your speed down I guess is the only advice I can think of.  Or maybe try different CD burning software?
Smooth move, the panels disappeared and now there are *no* panels
km0201, it seems to find GRUB2 just fine
Well the ISO passes the md5 check, checked that
boot the disk, then hit escape when you see the first ubuntu screen, then use check disc for defects
He was using a program called pages for the mac, since both linux and ubuntu are unix-based I thought you guys would be more helpful than a mac chat.
then you're not installing it correctly
amorton OO periodically saves it to a temporary file in case there's a fatal error
hey guys i'm doing a "tar cC /path/to/files ." which tars the entire folder but inside the tar file everything is in a '.' subfolder...how can i remove that subfolder?
start gnome-panel
What software are you using?
well, then Ivan96485 that would be his best bet
I don't think Ubiquity really leaves room for doubt
your session manager should have restarted them
It was running
type gnome-panel in a console
how do i burn movies with ubuntu i do everything in brasero then when i click burn it just closes
I had to restart it again
if you've got some brain death going on there i don't know what to tell you
i'ev reinstalled grub from a live cd, following those instructions, a gazillion times... so i know they are right.,.
okay, i'll look it up if it's possible. thanks for the heads up, good to know it's possible.
is there a better program to use to burn movies
Hey, don't make rude comments to me
so is there a way?
try K3B I guess
You could try k3b
Still, I would like to know how to save the data on the ram, is there a way to do that on ubuntu?
well dont ask me how, but somehow i got desktop cube working now.
You can reinstall GRUB2 from Live CD?
 probabbly. but i dont know it off the top of my head GIYF
the problem is that some dev try to make it an apple
daniel try running brasero from a terminal should give you stderror then
i meant with whatever session manager, or lack thereof that you are running
have you listeneed to a word thats been said, or even bothered to read that link you were given to, like 5x?
why do menu-items look so ugly when i right-click on them?
The burning software in Windows 7
Is there a way in ubuntu 10.10 to use skype without making the audio stuff be via pulse audio?
Yes you can.
becuase they never used linux before and is accustome to  MAc os
I will try ImgBurn next, but think it will be the same
if you've got some brain death going on there i don't know what to tell you <-- I find this very rude and offensive
do U know a way to wipe out just the empty space?
Do not make rude comments to me
giday, when i use chmod -R 660 dir  , after chown myuser:myuser -R dir, i can no longer enter the contained dirs with nautilus ? why ?
ahh, windows default software will most likley just burn the .iso as a single file to a data disk rather then burn the iso to the disk as an image
I say this because I had trouble with some other things
what session manager are you running? it should have restarted the panel
Hi. I just upgraded my ubuntu 10.10 to 11.04 (arch is amd64, running an amd e350 apu), the grub menu is gone and while ubuntu still starts to boot, at some point, the screen gets no signal and shut itself off (I cannot access the VTs in this state). Any suggestion on which bug/s I'm having here? (don't want to report a duplicate)
!skype
Is this empty space at the end of the drive or in the middle or the end?
i meant, when i use chmod -R 660 dir  , after chown -R myuser:myuser dir, i can no longer enter the contained dirs with nautilus ? why ?
dasy2k1, nah it burns it as it should
drwxr-xr-x 5 thien root 4096 2011-04-29 01:13 Setup
==> what is "d"?
Leave me alone because you are not helping
directory
Ok, I'm off to try that.
dir
geez..
ok
wtf happened to the minimize to desktop applet for gnome?
i do not know why your panel didn't restart then, not without that information, i'm sorry it didn't
I need to know why, when I try to remove my name from gnome-panel, it removes the entire right side of the panel info
nvm. i'm stupid.
Don't talk to me
/ignore ohsix
err..
i think it can also have other letters eg special files like "network" sockets eg
The only dumb or stupid question is the one not asked. Please do not tell people off for asking something, just because it seems simple or obvious to you -- we discourage this attitude in all our channels.
#ubuntu is the Ubuntu support channel, for all Ubuntu-related support questions. Please use #ubuntu-offtopic for other topics (though our !guidelines apply there too). Thanks!
in Unity or   Ubuntu Classic Desktop?
Upgraded from 10.10 to natty, backlight on laptop no longer worked (could only read the screen with a flashlight). Wiped and installed fresh, same problem. No backlight. Anyone have any idea how to fix?
ubuntu is operating slower
Classic gnome-panel
I don't know ... the free space on a partition
I tried to reinstall grub from a usb 10.10 install by chrooting into my failed 11.04, and using apt-get and grub-update from there... no luck)
but im trying to figure out my own simplish chmod quandry ! see previous msg's
lol KM0201
wiped and installed natty again?
I think Canonial have set it up like that or something
yes.
:)
If it is at the beginning and you can calculate exactly how many bytes to write to, I suppose yes you could, but if it's a section in the middle... well... if you don't know I don't either.
that's unfortunately a common problem, intel video right?
they want you to use the Gnome 2 patches
You're not helping either
correct
don't badger people
I want to know why when trying to remove my name from gnome-panel, the entire right side of everything disappears
anyone else running a Broadcom wireless having trouble getting it going (even w/ proprietary firmware driver)?
please tell me there is a solution... /praying
this is the worst ubuntu ever
a bug or feature I guess
well was hoping for a quick fix but RL calls. check ya l8r
ok, you can try installing xorg-edgers and running the kernel they package, it has updated driver components
The whole thing is one big applet
xsinick, it's been released officially for a day, relax
Yes how do you edit it?
Anyone?
is there a bug with installing from the latest ubuntu cd's????
And what is the applet called?
but it might not, and you'll need to file a bug; i've told 3 people to file today so it should be getting lots of attention :]
xsinick, I think it could be a veritable Waterloo
I think you can disable things by uninstalling packages, hmm.
yes but you won't tell us what it is!
fairly new to this, and have to do it by flashlight. Is there an easy command line thingy to type?
free space on a partition?  That is a contradiction of terms.
I think they have linked it together much more than it was before,  altough only tried that in beta 2, not the 11.04 final yet
mainly they dont work
well googled ossix
For some reason ALT+F3 doesn't prompt the run dialog box.  wtf? i checked keyboard shortcuts and there is no entry for run dialogue.  how do I get my run dialog back?
how can i test my mic in ubuntu?
I understand you guys
ive tried 32 bit and 64 bit on 3 different pc's  none of them boot
it may not be like 10.04, where you can remove some of the stuff, without removing all of it
It is a rude comment to me
what do U mean?
I don't care what you think
its alt+F2
i meant to say alt f2
alt f2 doesn't work
oh what a lovely attitude you have for this channel
Yes it's not like 10.10
Free space refers to an un-partitioned area on a hard drive.
Greetings all , i downloaded the torrent alternate i386 file , i dont have cd's , can i still upgrade from this file i have
I understand but to be honest I smell Mac OS  snobbery on my beloved Unbuntu
sudo apt-add-repository ppa:xorg-edgers/ppa in a terminal
You didn't see what he msg'd me
how's it going usr13
But what is the applet called?
Anyone have mic problems with skype in 10.10?
you're my hero
 are you using unity or classic?
classic
I got to check this out]
then apt-get update, apt-get upgrade
okay, i've installed 11.04, and everything went smoothly, then i rebooted, got to the login screen, entered my password, and all the controls disappeared - now i only see a purplish background and my mouse cursor and nothing's happening (for about 2 minutes now)
ohsix why should he add a repo because you say?
what key is KP5 in compiz?
I don't think we understand each other
any ideas?
it might not fix it
I may be a gnome problem
 working for me, you could allways add the run applet to the panel
nvm. it's the keypad
ok ill rephrase,  is there a bug with the latest install cd's mainly that they dont work, ive tried them on 3 different pc's and they wont boot,  kinda makes me worried to upgrade over the net, can anyone confirm this?
I'll cross my fingers. Would have reported bug already but seems the registration server is overloaded
I want to know why when trying to remove my name from gnome-panel, the entire right side of everything disappears
The best thing I can tell you is to make an image of  your drive, (on a usb drive would be one option), and then wipe it clean, and then copy the image back on the drive.
and in any case if it worked, it would just be something to report with the bug, because the fix needs to get from the updated drivers to the version included in ubuntu
dasy2k1, i'll try adding the run applet to my panel
noted
I thik it's meant to, like I said before,  Canonical want you to use that stuff
it's part of a hueg combo applet
indicator-applet I think, and the element have names similar..
thats because its one applet, indicator applet session
never add a repo someone tells you to without good reason!
how can i force ubuntu to get me back to the login screen (if it's possible)?
on a partion, there is used space (containning the data) and free space. I want to wipe out clean just the free space so that nothing can be retrieved.
ty dasy2k1
anyone?
How can I edit it though?
alt+printscreen then K
Does folding@home wortk on 11.04?
I don't want all that crap in my panel
it contains updated drivers, it is semi official in ubuntu, they have a bleeding edge and stable driver update ppa; and all the people rolling packages in it are ubuntu developers
you may be able to remove an applet for it, but  something tells me, it's not as customisable as before
if you don't want the big one add the ones the big ones include
gnome was way better than unity
heh, thanks.
I think you can install certain parts of it, e.g. "indicator-messages"
ohsix thats cool maybe mention it though
only problem - now my mouse doesn't work :s
you can use Gnome Shell in 11.04 :)
the keyboard works, though...
wow resizing windows the "normal" way with compiz doesn't seem to be working right.
sebsebseb, yeah i am, i tried using unity for a few hours.. hmm
gnome is still there, it's 99.99% of what ubuntu is, unity is 0.001%, a plugin for a window manager, compiz; and you can pick the classic session from the login screen
that elaboration was for you, i didn't need to justify suggesting it
Let's say you create a gziped image of the drive, you can delete the partitions, write zeros to it a bunch of times, write the image back onto the drive.
 just add the old applets you want, indicator applet rather than indicator applet complete
ok
i dont think the "file menu bar" should be at the top for every window, very inconvenient imo
guys any1 ,  i downloaded the torrent alternate i386 file , i dont have cd's , can i still upgrade from this file i have
does anyone know?
yeah
ChogyDan, how?!
I think there needs to be and Ubuntu  12 pronto this is begining to look like a big epic fail for the first time in it's history
Ok, I'm starting to learn Unity, I found there are many indicators that can be added up in the corner, how do I add them?
I can't believe how much nerd rage a left sided docker can bring.
versions for review had been available for a very long time before the release; any particular reason why you are reporting your issues with the decisions made now, and on a help channel?
ohsix why not if we carry on in this way we will be more insucure than windows
I get that. but can U just write zeros on JUST The free space?
 if you have a working install of ubuntu i would just use update manager
yeah install this from the rwepos box owened
dasy2k1, but my internet is slow
sure why not, it's not as if ppa's aren't signed by the uploader like any other pakcage
ok ill rephrase, is there a bug with the latest install cd's mainly that they dont work, ive tried them on 3 different pc's and they wont boot, kinda makes me worried to upgrade over the net, can anyone confirm this?
ohsix, well i was excited about it, and i just dont know if i could ever use it now that ive seen it
This page discusses the indicators, but doesn't seem to explain how to add them to the 'notification area?"
lsheeba, if you do that... make sure you have everything backed up. Update manager bricked both of my computers. Have the CD downloaded and burnt in case you have to re-install from scratch.
install cd (64 bit) workd fine for me
anyways... anyone can boot the amd images?
yur not targeting Linux usesrs though but windows migraters
you used the amd64 images?
I can't boot the AMD image :(
that's unfortunate, now that natty has shipped they're working on oneiric though; if you want to try and get your input taken as part of it's development, now's the time to start doing it :D
i cant boot any image
ChogyDan, thanks i didnt read it carefuly before :D about wasting cd's :D
amd images? how would i tell if i've done that? i upgraded from 10.10
hey, after i've logged in again, i'm in unity now, and the mouse started working. thanks again for the quick tip!
ubuntu keeps freezing/crashing...any ideas why????
what's oneiric?
look  you can hide feature  and focus on others make optons for things in the new  interface but don't just throw them away
i booted the live cd amd image..
Many have used them succesfully, I'm not sure of a general issue with that no.
 try running memtest, random crashes are often caused by bad ram
stbain1, i upgraded it online , and then canceled about 1/4 of the way
ok
didn't install from it though, i ran the live from it
generally you have to have a lot of user changes for it to break; user changes you should undo before you upgrade, next time come around i'll tell you how to fix it, rather than just telling people to be careful since you had a bad experience
ok by the looks of it, that's for Ubuntu Classic Desktop not Unity
and it does say how to install using the ppa's
the next release code name
minecraft) what should I get? openjdk, or gcj?
i did the ramtest and it was fine
why does blender span into the other workspaces  on windowed mode?
AH.. didn't know that
openjdk
ohsix, just about everything on both of my systems was default
playmouth main process (61) killed by SEGV signal
cyas
I switch to classic and it's the same nonsense
ohsix, reguardless, i like some of the additions to ubuntu 11.04 =) mainly iphone support
Alright, thanks.
i'll take your word for it; like i said, next time, i don't know the circumstances for when it broke for you
stbain1, if it bricked like u say , atleast can i boot my windows7 , and do it from their later ?
There's no other way I know of.  But for just one partition, you could make an image of it and then write zeros to just that partition and then restore the image of that one partition.
but it seems to indicate that those come with 11.04, and reading the article I thought it was unity.
also really what they are telling you, that you can install, is a load of junk
amd64, e350 apu actually) and grub is gone and the screen gets no signal while the boot sequence is checking out the battery (I'm on a desktop so this too is kinda strange). You read anything about something similar... I'm actually browsing launchpad to find something relevant.
thx
yeah, those are with unity
you probably just want to use the classic session instead of unity then, pick it on the login screen
i was reading that also
lsheeba, yes, if you have Grub running already, you should be able to fall back to that
Let's say it is sda3
well the shut down on top right, and envelope is also in Unity, but that's in classic by default, and what is mentioned there, none of that comes with 11.04
^
I think I figured it out, you need to install them, I searched for indicator, and was able to look at them, however have to reboot in order to activate them.
ohsix, yeah already set to default.. maybe ill try unity again sometime.. kinda felt weird without a window manager
shane4ubuntu, double click to start them one off or add to the startup applications
just make sure not to delete the ubuntu partition if you are using grub
hi
in the last 6 years I've learned to have a separate /home and simply "install" from cd, usb whatever to the root instead of upgrading..
hmm, nah nothing like that happened to me. grub failed, but i reinstalled it
there's loads of junk you can add to Ubuntu, and that site useually tells people about it
ahh, startup menu
how long does it take for the installation of natty  to finnish
listen the harsh lesson is if you installed 112.04 then if its buggy tough shite dont install non LFS
depends on the computer, should be about 20  minutes to half an hour on most
I tried to configure the 3d desktop for ubuntu 11.04, and it broke some display settings. and now ... after restarting, everything is hidden, i can't see any menu bar any more.  the only thing I see is the background image ... and I can do ctrl+alt+mouse to switch between empty desktops ... Do you know what should I do to put back the previous settings ? I can open a shell with ctrl+alt+f1
it is for unity the first paragraph explains the doing away with the Application Panel indicators, and the new entry of indicators.
clean system fresh install?  about 30 minutes or so.. then you do all the upgrades in one shot
ChogyDan, :< now u pulling my socks , should i upgrade or not lol , i wanted gnome3 but i heard its unstabled at this point , and Gnome4 will be the future of Gnome and not 3
mine is stuck at  saving installed packages
a long time, depends on the computer & internet connection; mine took like 2 hours but i had lots of packages installed
it took about an hour and a half on my computer
ohsix, i had a opengl game going in unity and it didnt have a top bar to drag it around, and there was no icon to signify it was even open
yeah i had 1500 packages to install, lol
I always make a seperate partition for my /home, and last time I tried the ubuntu beta2 image, it failed on grub install
oh installation, nevermind me, that was much faster
well run the commands they give, and it should add to Unity or Ubuntu Classic I guess
I'll boot from usb and see if I first can fix grub
seriously why does 11.04 take forever to damn boot
did you have multiple HD's in the machine?
only install gnome3 on a testing install, or in a vm
can someone recommend me a package for unraring rar files
heh in a way
freeman_, try unrar
install bootchart and see; i didn't notice any change, if anything it's slightly faster
nope, just one ssd
Hey all.  In the middle of upgrading from 10.10 -> 11.04; got told to consider submitting a bug report about monodoc-base failing to install.  Where do I report this bug?
there's a rar pack in the repos that adds to the main compressing untilitiy
oh well.. you fixed it though.. that's good.
 just go to the software center and install  rar
launchpad.net
i look for rar in software center and its not there
thanks.
unrar is there but id like to make rar files too
 next time to right click on a file it would give option to unrar
the progress bar isn't moving :(, how do I check if my cd is allright?
look for 7zip .. I think that does it too.
rar is in there
hi, virtualbox seamless mode doesn't display properly with the new ubuntu UI. Has anyone else run into this and found a solution?
dasy2k1, ChogyDan , stbain1 , and all whos helping , Thanks all =) and i know for a fact , i trust mysystem more with linux then using a mac os x when i have no idea what is running in the background
rar is nonfree, you need to enable the universe repos; i don't know if software-center does that, or looks there
lsheeba, you're welcome
if you're talking about grub, nope it isn't fixed... I'll chroot into my failed 11.04 to see if I can fix anything
only if you enable the extra repos
 Ubuntu 11.04 may have buugs and not work as well as 10.10
you're not running dual monitors are you?
oooh
i forgot i did that xD
hallo! i had download alternate cd of Natty, but when try to upgrade, system goes to internet anyway. what can i do?
xsinick, the bugs are the fun part :>
forget rar use gzip
I feel for you..
trying it now
is anyone here that knows how to make nautilus to look like file finder from Mac OS x?
i've typed a small novel in here today, gonna go do something else
seemless mode works fine for me
I was being a d**k when I typed that
fuck natty
although it makes the unity bar hide forever, lol
xsinick, its ok :)
that would be nice :D i doubt spacebar and stuff would work the same, i like th emulticolumn mode
 yes
i think im going to try 7zip
#ubuntu-offtopic, if you have a help question please ask
YOu should cosider publishing your work.
arand, thanks you!
thx
ohsix I have seen some pictures
thanks everyone for the continued help :D
I have seen some pictures
Any had any luck with Nvidia Drivers for ubuntu 11.04?
but GI_Jack is right guys it nonsense
why does the new version of udev choke on my sata controller
Were you able to get to the old files?
apparently mine are working.. i don't know
arand, with new kernel i can see my files
and/or the kernel for that matter
Excellent =)
anyone have experience with nfs?
arand, :` )
NP. And sorry, but I know of no real simple solution.  I was hoping someone that knew some easier way would step in but... no such luck.  There may be no other easy way.
GTK3 can blow me, but we get firefox 4 which is pretty cool
Any had any luck with Nvidia Drivers for ubuntu 11.04?
 yes I have it all working
Then hurry up and copy them to a safe backup ;)
whats your card?
sure.. but not the ones downloaded from nvidia.. the ones offered via ubuntu are up to date and work
i am running dual monitors
it tells me that they're installed but inactive in the additional drivers, but my nvidia x server settings tool works
I am running a GTX 480 in 11.04
<fruitwerks-web> I do
arand, sorry for my english i m greek
so far its working
any help please ?!!!
does it? what sata controller? (btw, this would be udev's rules scripts and possibly kernel changes, only coincidentally ubuntu changes because it includes both)
ok, I am having major issues with Natty on this new laptop of mine.  Its a HP-G42, anyone know of issues with this model?
that might be part of the problem.. you have to go to settings before loading the VM and let it know you have 2 monitors.. otherwise you have issues
No problem at all, I barely noticed :)
lemme check
GeFOrce GTS 250
i right clicked and it let me install rar package, lol that was easy
I got a vostro 3300 with a 310M and its saying activate but not in use, can remove reports an error.
and gtk3 is just deprecation and cleanup of things, and they're rolling some libraries that were almost always used together into gtk where appropriate; otherwise it is unremarkable, same thing happened with gtk2
rgoy
saying the same thing to me.. and my desktop performance is sluggish, so i'm not sure what's happening with mine
??
did you reboot?
 you have to restart
arand, i ll back up and i ll do clear install in ext4
hello all. how to ping ubuntu server using terminal?
I have done that. I mean my 2 monitor seamless was working in 10.10, but after the upgrade one display is missing in seamless and the other is incorrectly placed on the screen
friend complaining that Unity is slow, how can use Unity 2D to make it faster?
yea, it error'd out during installation i could check , looking at the install logs
is there any way to reset nautilus top bars, now I can't make show the icons bar on the top, like computer icon, back icon etc.
somebody can help me with this damned upgrade to natty? i can't upgrade it offline (of course, with alternate-CD)
 shit narwhal told me that seem crap all it means to say is restart to activate the drivers
you using the vbox version from the repos or direct from vbox?
going to restart
brb
hello, any oneknow how to ping ubuntu server using terminal command?
ping <server address>
hello, any help please ???
sure
OK, my sata controller is a ATI technologies SB7x0 8x0,etc....
yuskhanzab, do you know the address
ok anger simmering down
ubuntu nfs server and windows client? I'm like minutes away from ditching gentoo, nfs in ubuntu has not been good at all, right now it will mount, let me see eveything, but I can't read some files and I can't write to any and nothing has changed config wise- I have rebooted the ubuntu machine and the windows machine... thought I had it working normally nd then I go take a shower and I can't do anything on the share
feeling a  bit better
*ditching to gentoo
i dont know, its ubuntu server.. im now upgrading my ubuntu version. and its to slow right now
I guess Ill wait and see if it does anything <.<
what is ubuntu server address?
anybody can help me?
maybe a first boot issue?
I don't know if I like this unity desktop
yuskhanzab, maybe try getting it from a different mirror
Pinging it will not make it any faster.  It is a traffic problem.
go :]
 I heard good things about gentoo
just ask a question.. don't wait
Why is OSS4 not supported? It worked fine in 10.10, at least for me...
cdg, you need to customize it. try turning off auto hide on your dock. i seem to like that better
im uprgading using the upgrade manager
a can't upgrade to Natty from CD without internet.
It's just going to be slow right now because this is right after 11.04 release.
this download start last night.. until now not been complete
I used gentoo for like 10 years... and gave ubuntu a shot so I could spare this atom machine from the compiles... if anyone can fix the nfs issue, I'll probably keep using ubuntu
with the alternate cd you should be able to.
OSS4 is a junk, that's why
yuskhanzab, i left mine on while i went to class and it was done when i got back (2 or so hours)
Devs better send an update soon else this going down as the sh**test Linux distro for 2011
OSS is crap - always has been
(i lie, that's probably not why, but you'd rather fix what works right and is free)
I don't like this new scroll tab thingy either, how do I get rid of it
What is wrong with your nfs shares?
i use alternate-cd. but it anyway wants internet. may be something with my config?
if you find out let me know, it was clunky when first installed but it got better much faster
how do you turn off auto-hide?
anybody else had issues with the monodoc-base package during the upgrade, yet?
no idea.. sorry
cdg, install compiz manager
it's overlay-scrollbar, i don't think you can remove the package, but there's a conf file you can turn it off or something i'm sure
ive been download last night(16 hours now) also not been complete yet =.=
death to unity
lol
thanks!
other than having to reboot my ubuntu server every3-7 days because nfs stops working and restarting the service does not help, right now I can't do anything but get a directory listing
it looks like there are a bunch of bugs about it in Launchpad
OK, I almost have my desktop restored.... seems to be hung on the "Restoring previously installed packages" part
your welcom
It isn't crap. Deadbeef + OSS4 + Foobar2000's home theater eq setting makes my sound system sound way better than Alsa does.
it say's about 2 days more to complete
Anyone know if I can kill that restoration process?
cdg, in terminal type ccsm and it should tell you how to install
any reason why a maverick based "do-release-upgrade" would say no new release found?
is it save if i cancel the upgrading proses?
cdg, i am still trying to get it to dock on the bottom... the setting is there but it fails to show up
gonna go back to unity  and see If I can force my self to be a 20 year old I pad user the twitters
i hesitate to say you are full of crap, but you are certainly deluding yourself; and i bet you haven't even objectively measured, you just think your statement is well supported
that*
paste your /etc/exports file and the /etc/fstab file on the client and let's have a look.
from virtualbox themselves
you have it set to lts only
is it safe if i cancel the upgrading proses?
cdg, thanks to ohsix for helping me get this originally :)
 where do I cahnge that
credit where credit is due
Hello, I am running natty and have installed gnome3 from ppa, I'm confused about how to change my gtk/wm theme, I've tried the regular tool (right click nautilus desktop > change desktop background > theme tab) but this has no effect. I've then installed gnome-tweak-tool but it only shows one theme 'raleigh' even though I have installed more themes with apt
client is windows, worked great in xp, and just as good in 7, I have had the same configs for years
I've used Alsa with the same sound system for ~1.5 years. After I went through the process of switching to OSS4, I did notice a great improvement. Just because OSS3 was crap doesn't mean all of it is crap... "One person's garbage is another person's treasure."
you'll have to talk to whoever supports those packages, ubuntu proper doesn't
it's done on the login page.. click your user name and look at the bar at the bottom that appears.. that's where you change the wM
freeman_, is it safe to cancel the upgrading proses?
hey im new to ubuntu any one want to help?
When I boot natty I get a blank screen, I think I have ruled out a X server issue, but maybe not
Thank you :)
hey i have a 11.04 question
just ask a question.. if someone knows the answer they will
go to synaptic>settings
topramen, I have an answer
it's a server.. no gui.. I did find it in the etc dir.. thanks
did you measure a great improvement? you are making a statement common to fans of OSS(4) and it's never supported by more than a gut feeling, there are ways to measure things however
yuskhanzab, i dont think so... are you updating the kernel?
kellnola, yay
 what does no candidate for.... mean?
topramen, "I don't know" :)
upgrade hung... safe to kill the apt-clone restore-new-distro part of ubiquity to see if that frees it up?
no, im upgrade my ubuntu version to naty from maverick
stbain1, dont kill it yet, mine took a while to update
it's interesting you went out of your way to mention oss3 too, very interesting
0.o no idea, where do you see that?
ok how do i find out what version i am running because i tried to install 11.04 but idk if it worked
what is ubuntu going to do after zany zebra?
freeman_, how long? Mine's been hung for about 15 minutes now if not longer.
what happened when you suspend your laptop?
the download process to about 2 days to complete
stbain1, i was playing call of duty for about 2 maps and it was still updating
kellnola, do i have to still go through terminal to install programs?
freeman_, wow... that long, eh?
I'm just wondering why the warning was placed on the Wiki. Used to be that you could use any setup you want with it. I didn't expect being flamed for liking it.
I don't know if I should go with the x64 or the x86 version of ubuntu
make something up! you saw the early release names right? they weren't always alphabetical, it was just a fun thing to do
stbain1, search and destroy not tdm
10kb per sec
topramen, no ... I assume it still has synaptic or ubuntu software center
Is it possible to have ubuntu 11.04 64bit and 32bit and gparted all on one usb stick?
since you've stated you merely like it, i apologize, as long as it's not presented as fact
stbain1, sorry not update, it was fresh install
hey gang, I'm doing the update through the X gui; where do I grep for errors?
would it be on dmesg..?
Robert__ in a terminal, lsb_release -a
How about samba?
I was waiting for that
freeman_, im upgrading the ubuntu version to natty
but it is definitely contraindicated, if there is a problem with alsa or one of the drivers it will need to be fixed anyways; people in general aren't going to switch over to oss4 even assuming it was bug free and always better than alsa
alsa is in tree and supported by free software developers interested in fixing bugs they know about, and quite quickly i might add
yuskhanzab, if you backed up your information im sure its ok to cancel. if not give it a few more minutes
ok it says im still on 10.04 so how do i get 11.04 because i tryed to get it from the site and it didnt work
Robert__, if you were on the new version you would know it :P
 got your graphics card to work
?
it's really no different though, you were on your own before when you used it, now you're just a little bit more on your own
freeman_, its not a few minute to complete, it about 2 days.(10kbps)
10.04 is an LTS release .. 11.04 isn't .. you can't upgrade directly unless you reinstall.. if you choose to reinstall then I hope you have a separate /home partiton with all your data so it will be safe..
xsinick, yes i am pretty sure. i have the nvidia control panel up and it recognizes my card
 nice
yuskhanzab, sorry im out of answers.. try asking it again and see if you get any nibbles
While izinucs is correct that you can't upgrade directly from 10.04 to 11.04 you can upgrade to 10.10 then to 11.04.
I'll be doing another report this term and it's not even an official co-op term
done six already
mischan; sorry =X
lol, thanks anyway
xsinick, do you remember the command to check.. you grep some file
Jordan_U, well in this case it may be better to just blow it away with the cd.
Reinstalled GRUB2, still no boot
Jordan_U, I dist-upgraded since feisty all the way to lucid and I missed all kinds of new crap
 nope I'm no super user
i dunno man...
What happens when you try to boot? How did you try to re-install grub?
Jordan_U, and then with 10.10 I'm like, what is all this upstart crap?
xsinick, the true test will be if my computer games will run like they did in gnome
But to be explicit, it starts the kernel, it just fails to start x
I'm gonna be cool about this.. I refrained from posting a nice long line that would have had me perma-banned, something is wrong with nfs on ubuntu, look around, you will find posts going back to 2007 with these issues, I'm going back to gentoo so my stuff will work and I don't have to reboot to fix something
fruitwerks-web, nfs3 or 4?
So what screen are you left with?
 you got dual screens?
I did judt reinstall grub, I think it is having issues with X
I never had probs with nfs3 against solaris or RHEL
The blank screen after GRUB2 selection
sudo service smbd restart .. sudo service nmbd restart should do it.
so how the heck is it starting your kernel, and grub not working?
xsinick, no but i have one stored somewhere. i was thinking of getting it out but im lazy
can you elaborate?
ANYONE got dual screens?
so the grub install went fine, you have some other issue.
maybe after finals
where can i as questions about the KGpg plugin, mine is not working
I didn't say GRUB2 isn't working, it takes me to the Recovery Console just fine.
i do.
Are you sure it's booting?  How do you know?
A large amount of the first questions asked in this channel start with "Does anyone/anybody..."  Why not ask your next question (the real one) and find out? See also !details, !gq, and !poll.
yes.. but not on natty yet..
do you mean nfs or cifs or something, people have been giving you suggestions for samba
.. my pont I didn't post, those are cifs services
..
crap... still no wirelesws
enjoy your new release all... I'm *GONE*
whats your device?
I'm not sure, but the Recovery Console option works (2nd line in the GRUB2 Menu)
What is your wifi device?
broadcom 4311 (STA)
When you do the normal boot, what does it do?
can you test blender  windowed on Natty?
kubuntu
ya broadcom firm is broke on 11.4
you need the firmware for that card. In the hardware drivers app
you are the second person today having trouble with the 4311, did it freeze your computer when you weren't using the sta driver?
ohsix, why would anyone use samba in a unix environment if windows is not involved?
Is it possible to have ubuntu 11.04 64bit and 32bit and gparted all on one usb stick?  I have 11.04 on the stick now, but I'd like to have access to all three on one stick.
Natty is pissing me off
Screen goes black, hard disk activity for a little bit, then eventually drops signal to monitor and disregards numlock press
switch to classic console
well he said nfs, which is a real thing; i didn't see him mention anything else
i asked him to elaborate, i could have probably told him what it wasD:
ha hah hah
does anyone know how to make 'normal' window  size in compiz not suck
histo, I have the firmware installed... still doesn't work
What happens when you do Ctrl-Alt-F6 ?
lumbert, how are they loaded is it ISO's
no response
ohsix, I freezed when I did the update through the udpate manager
yes it is
yes.. I think unetbootin will do that.. it's in the repos
not sure about parted magic, but ubuntu 11.04 64/32 are downloaded as such
after you installed natty but before you installed sta?
So you can boot recovery mode....?
ohsix, the install never finished
yes
lumbert, pendrive has a linux multiloader
ohsix, ended up with black screen... no response, not way to get to console via CTRL+ALT+F1... nada :(
and oddly, if I press the hard power button for a second, it starts shutting down.
oh i thought you were having a problem with your wifi, that's while you're trying to install then, no?
is it because I'm running hybrid SLI?
I need help; Natty broke my computer, it won't even start up!
ohsix, yes.... so then I just slapped in the Natty CD and formatted everything... now Wifi doesn't work even with a fresh install
you and me, buddy.
Nate_, upgarde or install
usr13, already did that :(
Having issues with the Natty installer.
:( waaaaaaaaaaah
It keeps saying I have too many primary partitions on my disc
its just broke thats all there is to it. b43 drivers is dead as a door nail
I did upgrade from 10.10. I restarted, and it said Unity wasn't supported, so I went with GNOME. Then I restarted again and now it won't start up.
greylurk, how many do you have?
can i get 11.04 through an apt dist-upgrade or do I need to start from scratch?
it still works for me
nit-wit 4 primary, 1 extended
ohsix, the hardware->additional drivers did all that
you have too many primary partitions on your drive
ohsix, lucky you.
greylurk, the limit is 3 primary and 1 ext
One of the 4 primary partitions needs to be used for an extended partition.
ok, i never used thata; and it works for me, dunno what to say
nit-wit when did that change?
ohsix, how to change icons in ubuntu?
dmesg should say if the driver is finding its firmware
greylurk, always has been
jordan_u that's how it's set up
/dev/sda1-3 are used as primary
luck is a figment of peoples imagination and want for lovely coincidence
/dev/sda4 hosts the extended, which is /dev/sda5
please say soon ohsix.
i'm still a bit flabbergasted that traceroute isn't installed by default
That's fine.
ohsix, giggity.
IM s don't popup like inthe ubuntu video
it was a lie
no clue, i just hit customize in the appearance applet
do you even use empathy?
They do for me with empathy.
it comes with ubuntu
Is there some sort of log that I can review to see how the startup process failed?
it sure does
i was getting to what Jordan_U said already ...
why i cant use fetch?
not like in the video on the front of the ubuntu site
And for irssi, but that's a script I needed to add manually.
Is there a way to start up my computer from Command Line? I can get there...
block device /dev/sr0 is write-protected, mounting read-only
/dev/sr0 already mounted or /media/Ubuntu 11.04 amd64 busy
What client are you using? What happens when you get an IM?
how do you ad the gnome sensor applet to the panel?
Nate_, was this a fresh install or a upgrade?
its not in the add to panel / applet
what point in the video are you talking about?
Hi.
How can I setup ubuntu to download music track information?
Thanks.
Nate_, how to change icon in ubuntu?
As I have just found some old music that I wish to get the music track info automatically.
or rather what video are you talking about at all, i don't see any video on the front page
Without having to enter everything manually.
Nate_, are getting a grub prompt ...grub> or a grub menu then black
*you
Like how wmp gets the track information automatically.
Nate_, are you  here?
well ubuntu doesn't do it, but there are some programs that you can install on ubuntu that does; like musicbrainz picard
hm
becuase they moved it like aday befor this crap came out
on sec
Ok, I can get root shell in Recovery Console, is there a log of some sort I ought t review?
I'll get it
Upgrade. I have to hit escape to get to the CLI...just the normal CLI, doesn't say grub
thank you
i can't seem to find any information on this :( does anybody know how i can set up a user acct where it will use an nfs as its default home but if the nfs is down it can fall back on a local directory?
Thank you.;)
What is the prompt that you see?
:)
my max,miz button is missing in ubuntu 11.04 how to get it back?
Nate_, what is the graphics card
Ok tell me again what led up to this failure?  Did the upgrade get inerrupted?
I had 10.10 and Win 7
golly, I dont know, but that may be the issue. When I first started it it didnt recognize and forced me to go to gnome
And..... what happened?
Then I formatted and installed 11.04 alpah1
Macer, well... you just have to script, that if nfs is available, it should be mounted on top of /home/user
I think its a NVIDIA??
well how do you know nfs is down? the kernel tries its best to get it to act like a regular filesystem, and that means possibly waiting a very long time if the server isn't reachable
usr13:
usr:13 Then I formatted and installed 11.04 alpah1
you can change those settings in fstab
Yes.... and then?
the timeout and retrans
Nate_, haw to change icons in ubuntu?
Nate_, can you login at the cli, do you ever see a grub menu?
That didn't work any better than this one, so I waited for 11.04 beta 2, still no joy
i want it to fall back to a different directory if the nfs hits its retrans mark
ohsix, trying the raw ndiswrapper instead of the source
i don't even know if that is possible tho. i've been looking on google but don't see anything that relates
you still can't really ask "is nfs up?" that's the basic question you need in order to find some software that can do what you want if it's there or not there
What is the grub menu exactly? Command line looking thing with a purple background?
window resize 'normal' sucks... how do i fix it?
raw??? never use ndiswrapper if you can help it; argh
so, if i upgrade to natty my desktop icons will be gone, yes?
min,max button is missing from ubuntu 11.04,how to get it back?
i can't find them on the site
they hide them
then I waited for 11.04 final... and that's it
tanath, if you're not using classic probably
ohsix, I know. sucks, but the "canned" version isn't working... worth a shot
wooooow
wow
no dice
ChronicSyncope, classic?
Nate_,  you have upgraded and you don't know what a grub menu looks like?
i don't understand. it is a pretty straightforward question. if i have user home directories on an nfs and the nfs hits its time/retrans limits is there a way to get the server to fallback to a local directory
hi guys i'm getting an error stating that i need to upgrade the  NVIDIA kernel module has version 270.41.06
it's possible, but you have to decide what it would be, you probably want to copy/cache/sync files from nfs before log on, not try and use nfs and fallback
how do i do that
tanath, you can choose "classic gnome" when you log in and it looks just like 10.04
tanath, or 10.10 even
#ubuntu+1
no, it's not a simple question, as there is no fallback mechanism and you can't check if nfs is up or not
ChronicSyncope, ah, right. so then if not, how would i get at my desktop icons?
unmount it)" ... or something like that
tanath navigate to ~/Desktop either in the terminal or nautilus
OK, i gimaged it...I do know what it is!
sudo dpkg --configure -a
And no, I can't get there.
what happens when nfs comes back when you're using the local directory? what happens when it goes away when you are logged on?
ohsix, yah.... no clue why mine isn't
#ubuntu+1
Gah, come on.  I set up this partition structure when I installed 10.10... What is the problem.
what you really want to do is cache offline; and lots of people have done that
from Recovery Console root terminal?
ohsix, but looks like ndiswrapper just saved the day
Nate_, can you login at the cli and run starx
ChronicSyncope, how would you convert them to something as quick & easy to access as they were before? i've put people on ubuntu who put everything on the desktop...
Nate_, startx
i was just going to set up a cron script to sync the directories every 6 hours or so
 #ubuntu+1 is invite only means?/
Closed.
Oh, you don't have internet connection...
tanath, i'm not sure, I don't really like unity all that much. It probably has some kind of stacks on the dock though that you could throw them into (I really dont know)
well you can buffet that with pam login/log out scripts that update the cache too, or not even have periodic syncs
Won't open until next cycle starts up
the NVIDIA kernel module has version 270.41.03, but this NVIDIA driver component has version 270.41.06.
maybe I could, natty has been very good with my wifi card i the livecd
how to fix
there are fuse filesystems that can do caching for you, but they likely wouldn't be enough for your circumstance
will you help me my 11.04 min,max button also the applet that is in left side is missing
and being that it will be a fallback home dir and not the actual home dir...i think a fallback would be better.. especially considering size constraints.. i want the fallback dir to just maintain a small amount of information in order to get a user logged in instead of being hung at logging in
ChronicSyncope, does 'classic' use gnome 3?
well it hasn't stoped upgradeing tho
I'm trying to get back to command line...it's a chancy thing...
I don't know I'm afraid.
maybe even display a different motd explaining what is wrong.. but config files would be good to keep in teh fallback driectory
so you want them to be able to log in but not have any of their information or store any changes they make back at the real server?
like in the video this guy was all talking calmly about how cool ubuntu was and he say now I'm pop up  fom the bottom of the screen so you can typr to people on the fly or continue workinf
working*
you could just log them on with a guest session if nfs isn't available
that is a start
I don't see that shit yet
at the least i want the fallback dir to keep their config files from their nfs home dir
family channel ...
like .alpine .ssh etc
i'm used to upgrading like a month before release. this is the first time i actually don't really want to upgrade
That's in gnome3...
upgrading to natty narwhal does not alter my user data does it?
something that can get them on the system without having it hang and possibly change the motd explaining what is wrong
oops
*grump* finally got it working by doing a "custom" install, and reformatting my 10.10 install.
also something is weird with my work spaces i remember when i first got Ubuntu i could move a window from one workspace to another and now i cant
the . files in the home directories can be arbitrarily large; sounds like the problem you actually want to solve is ill defined
lol
tanath, let me check
 * jiltdil i think it is better to be stick to 10.10 for some more days
hello, why doesnt gnome shell work when i install in natty, it says error has accured and restarts to logon screen
tanath, nope 2.31
the actual home dirs will be much larger than .files
and dirs
tanath, nope 2.32.1 **
Tried startx at the # prompt, whole thing locked up
but thanks for the help. i will continue looking
in any situation i've seen, if the files aren't available then work can't be done anyways, so they just aren't allowed to log in, you want some sort of middle ground that still allows them to log in?
yes
can anyone clear my doubt. please!
ChronicSyncope, hm, thx
tanath, you can install it from the repos though, i believe
 can anyone clear my doubt. please!
tanath, but it doesn't work with unity AFAIK
i don't want the login to ever stop due to the nfs being down
 can anyone clear my doubt. please!
once there are local changes what will you do? if nfs was down for 6 hours the changes might be against files from 6 hours or earlier ago, if they're applied to current files they'd have a nonlinear history that would possibly cause data loss that people would not realize
the NVIDIA kernel module has version 270.41.03, but this NVIDIA driver component has version 270.41.06. So do i need to upgrade the Kerne or downgrade my Nvidea driver please help
ChronicSyncope, there's a number of things i'm concerned about losing on upgrade that will basically cripple me
 so are we not running gnome 3?
then you should probably find a way for nfs never to be down :O
 digirak, usually not
im leaving no one is answering
tanath, you might find it worthwhile to wait then...
What good do you expect this to do for the users?
what's that?
tanath, I've been spending the last few hours fixing compiz, lol.
howdy. Just booted into ubuntu 11.4 aand.. compiz effects are disabled. Trying to eanble the nvidia driver but doesn't seem to be a way
does anyone know the repo for backtrack?
ChronicSyncope, I'm also trying to get compiz to work
gNewSense (support in #gnewsense), Linux Mint (see !mint), LinuxMCE (support in #linuxmce), CrunchBang (support in #crunchbang), BackTrack (support in #backtrack-linux), Ultimate Edition
i can try and fill you in if you can give me some things
they can still access other servers from the box... but if their home dir goes down i want them to be able to still be able to login to  a... trying to think of a proper word
jubei, I have compiz working. are you in classic or unity?
contingency directory?
ChronicSyncope, unity
And we don't support using backtrack repositories with Ubuntu either.
 * topramen feels happy
then have them connect using a guest account, it is easy to do that even
how do I get that?
ChronicSyncope, when I select additional hardware drivers it shows me that the nvidia driver isn't enabled but also has no way for me to enable it
ohsix, well, from youtube vids there's shortcuts that get stolen away from things i use, like compz scale...
oddly, failsafex works from the Recovery Console window.
but there are greater options having a fallback directory
I like that the installer gives you stuff to do while waiting for the files to copy.
guest accounts create temporary directories & people log in, their changes are obliterated when they log out
ohsix, i was also thinking of gnome applets like system monitor being removed but i think that might just be gnome 3
say they DO write files there.. once the nfs is back up they login and can copy them over themselves
ohsix, also, desktop icons
Thanks Ubuntu.
there are also larger unfixable problems, like the nonlinear file history
that is what i am trying to avoid
jubei, does it say "activated but not in use" or is the little circle red?
ohsix, though that's more important for others i've put on ubuntu
ChronicSyncope, yes
ChronicSyncope, yikes. i use compiz heavily
ChronicSyncope, sec
ah; allow me to allay those fears, even with gnome-shell nautilus and the panel will still be available, as they are now with unity
how do I get this coolness? :
isn't time always linear?
:)
when setting a password for a .zip file does it use encryption (if so what type) or does it just use a basic password access restriction?
i thought ntpd fixed linear problems
not if you modified a file from 6 hours ago, but you save it over one that has been changed outside of the cached copy
jubei, activated but not in use? that means it's working. but if the light is red, it's not working. I don't know how to solve the not-working problem myself, but i'm sure somebody here has some ideas
ChronicSyncope, says "This driver is activated but not currently in use", and the circle is green
ohsix, also i use things like nautilus-elementary... not sure if that'll break
jubei, thats how mine looks, and compiz is working for me.
the problem is offering older copies to the client
ChronicSyncope, but I don't get my old effects.
that looks like fedora to me
my touchpad doesnt work the scroll when i upgrade how can i fix it
Ubuntu doesn't use gnome-shell or gnome3's notification system by default. If you want an experience like that video you need to install GNOME3.
ChronicSyncope, and under "Appearance" there's no option to enable effects
it's basic symmetric
ok. but you are digging too deep into possible problems.. is there a way to do it or not? :)
I mean install GNOME shell.
rhizmoe, using aes128?
ok
oh he was talking about the gnome webpage D:
zip files are easily cracked ..not a good method of security
doing that now
jubei, install ccsm
a simple fallback directory is all i need
ChronicSyncope, ok.
in natty you have to install compizconfig-settings-manager and change settings under that
rhizmoe, what man page would i look at for details
so i tried to run unity on 10.10 and it didn't work too well. couldn't access the searchy thing that seemed to integrate with the desktop and not accept clicks
jubei, sory compiz-config-settings-manager
i can figure out the problems that come along as i go alone and refine how it works
 thanks but Ubuntu is not running gnome shell in Narwhal?
alone/along
celthunder, that depends on if it is encrypted or just an acess restriction
no it's running unity
Correct. It is using the Unity shell.
jubei, i was wrong again compizconfig-settings-manager sorry xD
jeeze that's annoying, and why do they have to publish videos for that stuff? are they trying to be mozilla without actually doing anything interesting?
celthunder, i would hope it would at least avoid massive plain file archiving of email attachments
ChronicSyncope, got it thank you.
 thanks
rhizmoe, looking
ohsix, also, from what i've seen on youtube i don't care for the titlebar loss/integration with panel
 thanks
You're welcome.
jubei, no problem, unfortunately i gotta run :( plenty of other people here to help though!
what is the default unity network manager?  the gnome one?
rhizmoe, i am aware that old zip files in windows use an acess restriction but the newer winzip programs use aes 128/256 now what is this gnome shell using?
why we stoped gnome?
well, that's something else; and you don't have to worry about it, you can just use the classic session
ohsix, but i want to be able to use/like unity... it has potential and will likely become standard... i need to be able to make things work to my liking or adapt things
ohsix, i dislike when features are removed or break others though
theres not a lot of room for that, they're designing an experience
Ubuntu asks for a password to "Unlock my login Key ring" every time I login, what is up with that? Can I disable that?
you can change your password to match your keyring password, or vice versa
ohsix, i'm concerned about losing my hard-fought-for efficiency
ohsix, and lack of annoyances :p
I think it's time to switch to fedora
fedora does have a lot of upstream oomph
fedora fails...
RPM has long been a good package manager.
i'm thinking about trying debian or arch
are you using any password-protected wifi network, that tries to connect when you bootup?
but i'd hate to dip outside of the repos for something as trivial as ffmpeg or stuff that uses it
But ubuntu just works.
Any reason I should have gotten this error while upgrading? "The upgrade has aborted. Your system could be in an unusable state. A recovery will run now (dpkg --configure -a)."
yes, upgrades never go well
and they take forever
ACameron, you're not _supposed_ to get errors :p
fedora looking nice about now doesn't it?
go for arch it totally rapese debian
Arch ftw.
just do a sudo mv -r /* /dev/null and install from disk
xsinick dunno haven't booted up unity yet.
Please don't
let me predict... Dude you gonna hate it  as it is now
hello, can someone tell me why gnome 3 does not load when installed in natty, it gives an error, and no other sessions work when gnome3 is installed either?
what's the error
xsinick dunno.  I can always just go to slackware 13.37
!gnome
GNOME is the default !desktop environment on Ubuntu. To install it from Kubuntu or Xubuntu, type « sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop » in a !terminal.
please see above
whats the error?
installing that won't help...
Hey all - Great work!  Can anyone tell me if/when broadcom support for the Compaq V5000 (Broadcom B43 I believe) will be ready?
yea, sometime that comes up and after key in the password, some wireless starts to connnect, but right now their is no wifi-hotspot around, I just enter the password and thats it. Please, how do I disable this, its silently annoying
yeah, I know. :) But I didn't cancel the installation, and the only problem was with monodoc-base.
yikes. good to know you can't safely downgrade from gnome 3...
anyone know of a good multithreaded download manager that integrates with firefox and supports batch downloads?
sorry didnt pay too much atention because was more concerned on the fact that no session worked so had to purge the ppa.
Tully - Downloadthemall (downloadthemall.net)
Gah!  Downloading packages, 24 minutes remaining?  Wish they just included those on a DVD release.
Dta
Tully_, jdownloader
Medfordite Download the mall?  Sounds like fun.
 did the  card work after rebooting?
Download Them All :)
that driver should work already
What's the recommented way to install google earth in Natty? To download the .deb from google, or from medibuntu, or from e.g. a partner repository?
thanks all, will check it out
How is Natty, for those who have gotten their hard disks filled with it,  any major bugs I might wanna avoid coz I am dying to press that upgrade button on my Update manager
greylurk, one day i will rule the mall!
Celthunder - Not seeing the Restricted drivers listing the driver like usual as in 10.10 or 10.04.
b43 i've seen used before
Any experts on initramfs & mdadm present?  I have a server which fails to mount the root filesystem on reboot.  It drops into the busybox shell claiming that there's no root filesystem.  A simple mdadm --auto-detect fixes it and the system continues to boot.  Why is this happening, and how can i get the mdadm process to continue without intervention?
nit-wit ; thanks i'll check that out
tanath one ring to bring the mall, and in the darkness bind it!
heyo
greylurk, bind the mall?
Well, Ubuntu 11.04 works only post-install if you try to restart it fails and doesnt boot anymore
greylurk, how about blind? (ring = bling)
There is a "Available to all users" option that you can enable in Network Manager's config for that wifi connection, and that will stop the system from prompting you to enter the keyring password before connecting you to wifi. Are you using auto-logon?
Hmmm...another issue, attempting install of grub boot loader now at the moment for the Server version and it is erroring out with the update-grub function.  2 hard drives, installing to the master drive.
hi, im trying to get minecraft to work on ubuntu 10.10 and it wont seem to open. ive read a bunch of ways to fix a black screen, but i havent even gotten that. i enter a name and click ok, but i dont get any screen afterwards. does anyone know how to fix this?
tanath I think you're on to something.  My version just ends up with a big mall of twine.
Also NVidia drivers, ONCE AGAIN, doesn't work on release, this is getting annoying.
so? find the broadcom modules and install them and load them if they don't work use ndiswrapper
greylurk, :D
and Im on certified hardware. :(
regardless b43 support works one way or another
 i agree and i think i
i briefly googled and i lazily looked at the results, so i'm going to instead ask in here..
I'm gonna switch to fedora
crap... Now its' 26 minutes left.
is there a fix for the crappy new scrollbars?
blame nvidia...or use the open source drivers...which work quite well
Somehow I'm on Microsoft minutes.
rgoytacaz, I feel your pain. Someone should shot the guys from nvidia for not releasing their drivers for free
lol switching to Fedora because of video driver troubles is probably about the3 worst move you could make.
if oss works well, why does Ubuntu choose to install the nvidia one by default? Dont we learn?
found the fix, phew
I'm having a problem where I go to click on things within a window, but it selects stuff from the window behind it.  Anyone know of a fix?
greylurk, the first time I made a upgrade on the day the release came out, it took me 8h!
tell me an old hag, but clean install stuff people, do not upgrade stuff, that _NEVER_ goes well
need help ---> UNKNOWN MONITOR
I think xsinick is a Redhat shill.
hrm, i installed unity on 10.10 and it installed dependencies, but now on removing it the dependencies aren't being removed along with
#canal
cause you're insane?
#ubuntu-br
Well, it's down to 9 minutes now... Just bouncing all over the place.
that's just plain wrong
wow, whats that for? free aggression?
taglass i got them to work but this new ubuntu  11.04 is crappy as Blender 3d is spanning two workspaces every time i luanch it
Ubuntu doesn't install the proprietary drivers by default. And they are technically superior in many ways, especially when it comes to 3D accelleration.
need help ---> UNKNOWN MONITOR
tanath, the dependencies are not removed if you install from things such as synaptic or ubuntu software center. If you want dependencies to be removed, you need to installl with apt-get or aptitude
nah lol just saying...using the oss drivers works for 99/100 things...try them out first
take that to wtv you live, not here.
carandraug, aptitude is what i use
need help ---> UNKNOWN MONITOR
Don't repeat.
i try to remove transmission with apt-get remove transmission but it says that its not install but it is an ideo to remove this ???
looks like i have to go buy a cd LOL
_ryx_ we heard you.  What kind of monitor do you have?
tanath, then I don't know. Maybe you have something else installed that needs those dependencies
transmission-gtk
I know, but from my experience we always have problems with that driver, maybe an option which we can choose between during install, maybe it work okay.
OMG this is taking soooo long to download
carandraug, can't think what
and i have a final tomorrow. i kinda don't wanna sleep until i've figured it out
yes
yi
laumonier, pastebin "aptitude search transmission" please
celthunder, just stay here a few more days and see the amount of people asking things like "I upgraded and now stuff that used to work dont work anymore", it has already started
You said that you want the open source drivers to be default. They are.
gonna remove the nvidia addtional drivers and see if that help ubuntu to work correct
yi`zhi, i have downloaded the alternate i386 ubuntu 11.04 from torrent and it downloads fast 1500kb/s
tanath, see "aptitude show package_who_does_uninstall"
hey, i just tried creating a bootable usb from the download image, and it wont boot from my machine, anyone know why? i used dd on my mac to copy the image to my usb key. ive booted from the same usb key for other linux distros...
celthunder ty
anyways, I'm trying for the 3rd time a install using different parameters, let see what happens.
can anyone tell me how to change the group of all the files in a directory at once
lsheeba, oooh
i'm on arch...which is rolling release...which just proves the above statement abundantly false ...as does gentoo, slackware, lfs, etc
thanks for that!
Anyone figured out the shutdown/boot problems?
all of them allow you to pretty much update anything whenever you want as long a you upgrade everything else with it
dd doesnt work for ubuntu images.  use netbootin
but the problem is yi`zhi  is that u wont be able to upgrade somehow !!! :S theirs some kind of bug, the only way is to make a cd , i tried emulating a cd and mounting it then running but doesnt work
yi`zhi, maybe if i used an application rather then terminal might work , let me test :D
the instructions say to use dd, and unetbootin doesnt list my usb key
 I'm having a problem where I go to click on things within a window, but it selects stuff from the window behind it.  Anyone know of a fix?
hi all, is there any option within skype to record call?
does anyone know why is the dash in my unity always maximized?
helo wat room is dis?
anyone here running natty and have a printer installed?
A dd'd Ubuntu image will only boot on EFI machines (like intel macs).
it's a plugin
`chgrp -R groupname /dir/name` - prefix with "sudo" if your account can't change the group.
new one to me.  I've never had any luck dding ubuntu images
anyone know why tab completion takes FOREVER in 10.10?
oh well, good luck people, fixing all your upgrading problems, see ya later
or where i can help on that?
NotTooDumb3, their are third party softwares that does it
i have an intel efi pc
11.04 cd won't boot, see the purple ubuntu screen for a while then get no init found. try passing init= bootarg
anyone here running natty and have a printer installed?
Did you use the 64 bit image?
one of my machines has it maximized the other one not
no, 32
z0x1c thanks
what's your printer doing
Only the 64 bit iso has EFI support.
>_<
any ideas?
ubuntu 11.04 upgrade available popped up i am happy with MM 10.10 any suggestions?
celthunder, I need someone to verify documentation
Captainkrtek, i have natty still didnt upgrade and yes hp printer installed working fine / network and USB both does
lsheeba, may I PM you?
cntb, then don't upgrade
any  help please ?
Captainkrtek, sure
thanks
dont upgrade yet :)
the 64 bit download has "amd64" in the filename
im using ubuntu classic because this unity suddenly stops hiding itself etc.
does anyone know how to force 2 ethernet ports (same NIC) go around the ethernet switch to see each other?? :D
AMD64 is the 64 bit x86 architecture started by AMD and used by both AMD and Intel.
amd64 covers amd and intel.  ia64 is Itanium
k thks carandraug  and rgoytacaz  avoiding that popup how can i nvoke later?
cntb, I mean, people tend to prefer the latest version, but if it works for you, then don't upgrade. It may just create more problems. I'd give it a 2-3 weeks before thinking upgrading. I'm still using 10.04
k, im just used to seeing x86_64
crossover cable
that is the LTS
or straight through depending what the nics are
wow, even the 11.04 installer is buggy.  =o
cntb, It should be available on the update manager every time you go there
celthunder, if i do iperf it will give me 18Gb/s
z0x1c thx man
Natty will definately take ubuntu on much greater heights. Canonical income will increse majorly due to their cloud-platforms-intergration coz soon we are gonna have many users.
roknir if true a good point
carandraug, removing recommends manually doesn't remove any other packages either
celthunder, they are tx/rx locally!
thks roknir
is there a replacement for cryptkeeper for natty? I can't get my icon to show up o nthe bar when I run it.
trying to boot natty narwahl 11.04 and it won't load any help?
first ubuntu release in quite some time where i've had to use the text installer to be able to install to a VM.  -_-
cntb, yes. I upgraded to 10.10 but went back because I had some problems with the unity interface. I liked it but it was still to slow and had a few bugs that made it incomaptible with Gnome DO
does anyone have experience installing Ralink wifi drivers on ubuntu? I can never make them work
chipset?
ok i'll read that ina moment
could not find module nvidia_current
carandraug, gnome-do uses a lot of space, depending on mono & such. synapse is a great lightweight alternative
its just called the 5390 as far as I know
so i will opt for ask later on 11.04 upgrade cu
thats what I get during install of 11.04
hello
carandraug, only downside i've found is lack of pidgin integration so i can't easily bring up chat windows
could not find module vmxnet
how can i cd into /var/spool/cron ? i get an error that "cd" is not a sudo command
when is later ? each restart of computer?
yes" somewhere on the output?
though I wish synapses would have had much plugins like gnomedo
cd is a shell builtin.  try sudo bash
celthunder, ok, take ur time
carandraug, i remember from when i installed it that everything was automatically installed except for 'unity'
not sure if it told you i replied, its the ralink 5390
sudo -s rather
tanath, I mainly use Gnome DO to open programs and folders, and shut down the computer. Not the plugins so much
no init found. try passing init= bootarg.
tanath, yes. But is it marked by aptitude as automatically installed? If you run that command, it should say
switch justno router?
carandraug, synapse has a fair bit. enough for most things, including zeitgeist which i don't think gnome-do has
celthunder, just switch
should try out some plugins, you'll realy save alot of time for other things in yout linuxbox.
:/ not sure then
celthunder, try to do 10Gb fiber...
thank you so much!
Ok...  I went to do dishes, and came back, and now it's at 14 minutes remaining.   This is getting strange.
celthunder, the 10Gb dual NIC is so expensive, i only had 1
fibre ends are annoying...or maybe that's just cause i do them with bad equipment
what exactly does zeitgeist do, I have come acoss that several times but never knew its importance
celthunder, no, i did 10Gb to 1 Gb , it worked fine
24 -> 26 -> 9 -> 24 -> 14  I suppose that at least half the time the number is going down.
tanath, I'll give it a try, thanks. By the way, Gnome DO was developed by the same guy behind Unity
celthunder, i get like 970Mb/s in iperf which is good
i meant like physically doing them
not routing them /etc
carandraug, interesting. i like gnome do, but iffy about unity... yet anyway
11.04 live cd won't boot any help?
nmvictor, I gave a look at the plugins. But I spent most of my time on gedit and a terminal. And have shortcuts on the keyboard for pretty much everything else I do so I don't need them much
celthunder, yea pcb routing is kind strict
pyrodood what happens?
'~$ ip addr; 192.168.178.26'. '~$ sudo dhclient eth0; bound to 192.168.178.26'. What is bound here to what?
Anyone knows the cause why you can't shutdown/boot Ubuntu 11.04 after install?
I'm watching unity vids on youtube. Is it possible to disable the unified toolbar? (e.g. the OS X toolbar in the top no matter where your window is)
celthunder, testing some evel board now
I didn't know that.. maybe he can do something about alt-f2 this dev cycle :)
s/OS X/OS X style
hook me up with some hw :)
celthunder, eval*
celthunder, haha yea right
you got virtual box installed?
tanath, same here. The most weirtd thing was that they conflict with each other. You try Super +space and Unity intercepts it
nmvictor, it's sort of a history log of comp activity so you can quickly access things you've done before. gnome activity journal provides a front end, and it integrates with synapse and has plugins for things like banshee and xchat
No.
Anyone knows the cause why you can't shutdown/boot Ubuntu 11.04 after install?
i see the purple screen for a while
then the screen goes black
hold alt i think
carandraug, one reason i don't want to use unity. it coopts some shortcuts i use
or ctrl
then it says no init found.
celthunder, i guess i can do vlan on the Eth Switch then?
try passing init=bootarg
yea, it says crash manager something fails
is gnome3 supported here?
pyrodood try ctrl-alt-f1 and see if it's completely locked up or if it's just having prolblems with your vid card.
ubuntu-br?
celthunder, have those 2 ports in  different subnets?
taglass, I find the best way to have something done on free software is to report the bug, request a feature. If already has been requested, say that you also want it. And if you can code, submit a patch. The last thing works for me every single time :p
yeh put them in different vlans and use the pc as the router to itself...
fair enough :)
anyone?
i don't see any change with ctrl+alt+f1 but i can type commands
Por favor, use #ubuntu-br para ajuda em português. Para entrar no canal por favor faça "/join #ubuntu-br" sem as aspas. Para a comunidade local portuguêsa, use #ubuntu-pt. Obrigado.
what's your switch?
 how did you go back ?have both  on grub menu or how you down graded
celthunder, nda with marvell
perhaps i should say type characters i don't know if they are commands
celthunder, cant tell u hahha
cntb, you can't go back. I had to reinstall 10.04
GNOME 3 is a project in progress. You can download a GNOME 3 DEB program package from a PPA.
10.10 live cd does boot
Hey all, I'm getting a problem with updating my release.  I'd like to upgrade to natty but when I try to check for new updates via the update manager I get this error:
, E:Some index files failed to download, they have been ignored, or old ones used instead.
celthunder, its not even released yet so docs sux
pyrodood it sounds like the gui install having some difficulty recognizing your video card.  try command line install?
I dont need Unity, as long as its panel is not removable nor modifyable, that imposes a restriction I cant live with, Gnome give musch freedom.
GTK+ 2.x symbols detected. Using GTK+ 2.x and GTK+ 3 in the same process is not supported
any ideas?
celthunder, dont want to change the registers manullay :(
celthunder, manually*
how could i disable one of them?
I'm with you there
i don't know how to do command line install
that is repartitioning carandraug  why not have possibility as the small updates kept all in grub?
j
:/ ouch...is it that different from other switches/routers?
anyone know where i can find help on screenlets, looking to change my screenlets units to farenheit not celcius
So Installing 11.04 without download the updates seems to work for me.
So no updates for a long time.
will_, ugh. get with the times :P
But nvidia still doesnt work.
thanks. bye
from the variety of cisco routers/switches/etc i used 9/10 times the commands are the same despite model
ok, twice now I have gotten a black box of death.....
trying, dont understand these units though lol
taglass, it's really good. I'm no programmer but started slowly by fixing erros in man pages and documentations. Then on small simple scripts. It just sucks you up in and before you know it, you're sending patches to the devs to fix all your bugs and half your drive is the trunk version of the programs you have installed. Free software is amazing like that
will_, 0C is freezing. 100C is boiling
will_, both are same at -40
if i do command line install will the video card work after that?
celthunder, this is one server design, its not an COTS switch
this little thing appears on one of my screens, I hover over it to find it is actually a program all smashed up, so I enlarge it and it is just nothing but black... sort of like a dead terminal screen. I exit the thing and unity dies.
hello all
will_, ~22C is room temp
where did the network places go in unity, like the ssh and samba connect to server bookmarks?
does anybody know a good place to get left-handed cursors for KDE 4.2?
o well thats all i need then, thanks for the heads up, i just need to estimate a rough closeness to matching *F
celthunder, the IC switch is still dev, so we just testing the eval board now
thank
So I removed the nvidia driver, which said that it couldnt display Unity and the default OSS does display, fuck nvidia.
cntb, what do you mean? Grub only points to the linux kernel. Even if you kept the old one, when you upgrade to 11.04, you'll upgrade every bit of software you have installed. All of them will be on the lateste version. It has nothing to do with GRUB
Please watch your language and topic to help keep this channel family-friendly, polite, and professional.
ah
well nice job...i'm envious....if you're hiring...let me know :)
Basically by de-installing the associated DEB program package. But it is difficult to deinstall GNOME 2 in Ubuntu because Ubuntu has many metapackages and thus side effects.
will_, below about 10 it starts feeling cold enough to want to dress warm
celthunder, u hw or sw?
mix of both
more software
celthunder, we're in Socal
Hm, also Ctrl-click doesn't seem to right-click like I expect. Am I wrong about that?
celthunder, im in HW but SW dept is hiring too i think
anyone know a way to create a screenshot of the desktop using ONLy the cli?
move this to pm?
unity is working pretty well, but just cant find "places" anymore
pfifo like a screenshot of the cli?
celthunder, sure
scrot
greylurk, no, X, but it must be invoked from cli and require no user intervention.
'~$ ip addr; 192.168.178.26'. '~$ sudo dhclient eth0; bound to 192.168.178.26'. What is bound here to what?
Hello
So I upgraded from 10.10 to 11.04
Ohh... if I click by tapping on the mousepad, then I *can* drag...
now my OS is a complete s**tfest
in GDM everything blinks the menus are not visible
i got here from irssi actually :/
But if I click by clicking the clicky area of the mousepad with one finger and then dragging with the other, then I can't. Hm.
Does all work ok with the upgrade???
NOPE
Im thinking if I should or should not upgrade now
don't
i just ruined my Ubuntu installation using the standard way
and have no idea how to fix it
each time i use a password there the key gest who appears and ask me and password but nothing works what should i do???thx
ubuntu, the way I see it, if it ain't broken don't fix it
Wow, better I wait
anyone with 11.04 can help :/
this is really bad =(
upgrade worked for me but it took 7hrs, servers very slow
i need to use my computer to move some files now but i really can't
carandraug, if it ain't broke, you haven't fiddled with it enough
ubuntu warning do not upgrade
unless i use cp /*
or something
I too messed yup my install
xsinick_laptop in what way
I just did an upgrade in about an hour and a half.
tanath, ahahahah! Too true
 I'm now on my 10.10 laptop
Seems to be working so far, but I haven't checked all of the Nvidia stuff.
i use Nvidia
>:(
i use Nvidia and the entire Gnome (notifications and desktop) blinks for me on/off
and the menus aren't visible at all
booted into failsafex, ran the Additional Drivers wizard, installed the new nvidia drivers, and voila!!! it works!
asiekierka, oh! Someone here was complaining about the NVidia drivers just a few minutes ago
Does unity looks and works better than gnome??
carandraug i'll just run ./fixgpu.sh to install the beta drivers i use
i'll see if it helps
remoford, System > Admin > Software Sources > Download from, Other > Select best server
no, it has silly stuff
(my own script)
still doesnt work :(
remoford, prolly would have saved you some time :p
brb

